The Project Gutenberg EBook of Alone In London, by Hesba Stretton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Alone In London

Author: Hesba Stretton

Release Date: April 27, 2004 [EBook #12172]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALONE IN LONDON ***




Produced by Joel Erickson, Tom Harris, Dave Morgan, Mary Meehan and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





                             Alone in London

                            By Hesba Stretton

      Author of "Jessica's First Prayer," "Little Meg's Children," etc.




CONTENTS.

CHAPTER

      I. NOT ALONE

     II. WAIFS AND STRAYS

    III. A LITTLE PEACEMAKER

     IV. OLD OLIVER'S MASTER

      V. FORSAKEN AGAIN

     VI. THE GRASSHOPPER A BURDEN

    VII. THE PRINCE OF LIFE

   VIII. NO PIPE FOR OLD OLIVER

     IX. A NEW BROOM AND A CROSSING

      X. HIGHLY RESPECTABLE

     XI. AMONG THIEVES

    XII. TONY'S WELCOME

   XIII. NEW BOOTS

    XIV. IN HOSPITAL

     XV. TONY'S FUTURE PROSPECTS

    XVI. A BUD FADING

   XVII. A VERY DARK SHADOW

  XVIII. NO ROOM FOR DOLLY

    XIX. THE GOLDEN CITY

     XX. A FRESH DAY DAWNS

    XXI. POLLY




CHAPTER I.

NOT ALONE.


It had been a close and sultry day--one of the hottest of the
dog-days--even out in the open country, where the dusky green leaves had
never stirred upon their stems since the sunrise, and where the birds had
found themselves too languid for any songs beyond a faint chirp now and
then. All day long the sun had shone down steadily upon the streets of
London, with a fierce glare and glowing heat, until the barefooted
children had felt the dusty pavement burn under their tread almost as
painfully as the icy pavement had frozen their naked feet in the winter.
In the parks, and in every open space, especially about the cool splash
of the fountains at Charing Cross, the people, who had escaped from the
crowded and unventilated back streets, basked in the sunshine, or sought
every corner where a shadow could be found. But in the alleys and slums
the air was heavy with heat and dust, and thick vapours floated up and
down, charged with sickening smells from the refuse of fish and
vegetables decaying in the gutters. Overhead the small, straight strip of
sky was almost white, and the light, as it fell, seemed to quiver with
the burden of its own burning heat.

Out of one of the smaller thoroughfares lying between Holborn and the
Strand, there opens a narrow alley, not more than six or seven feet
across, with high buildings on each side. In the most part the ground
floors consist of small shops; for the alley is not a blind one, but
leads from the thoroughfare to another street, and forms, indeed, a short
cut to it, pretty often used. These shops are not of any size or
importance--a greengrocer's, with a somewhat scanty choice of vegetables
and fruit, a broker's, displaying queer odds and ends of household goods,
two or three others, and at the end farthest from the chief thoroughfare,
but nearest to the quiet and respectable street beyond, a very
modest-looking little shop-window, containing a few newspapers, some
rather yellow packets of stationery, and two or three books of ballads.
Above the door was painted, in very small, dingy letters, the words,
"James Oliver, News Agent."

The shop was even smaller, in proportion, than its window. After two
customers had entered--if such an event could ever come to pass--it would
have been almost impossible to find room for a third. Along the end ran a
little counter, with a falling flap by which admission could be gained to
the living-room lying behind the shop. This evening the flap was down--a
certain sign that James Oliver, the news agent, had some guest within,
for otherwise there would have been no occasion to lessen the scanty size
of the counter. The room beyond was dark, very dark indeed, for the time
of day; for, though the evening was coming on, and the sun was hastening
to go down at last, it had not yet ceased to shine brilliantly upon the
great city. But inside James Oliver's house the gas was already lighted
in a little steady flame, which never flickered in the still, hot air,
though both door and window were wide open. For there was a window,
though it was easy to overlook it, opening into a passage four feet wide,
which led darkly up into a still closer and hotter court, lying in the
very core of the maze of streets. As the houses were four stories high,
it is easy to understand that very little sunlight could penetrate to
Oliver's room behind his shop, and that even at noonday it was twilight
there. This room was of a better size altogether than a stranger might
have supposed, having two or three queer little nooks and recesses
borrowed from the space belonging to the adjoining house; for the
buildings were old, and had probably been one large dwelling in former
times. It was plainly the only apartment the owner had; and all its
arrangements were those of a man living alone, for there was something
almost desolate about the look of the scanty furniture, though it was
clean and whole. There had been a fire, but it had died out, and the
coals were black in the grate, while the kettle still sat upon the top
bar with a melancholy expression of neglect about it.

James Oliver himself had placed his chair near to the open door, where he
could keep his eye upon the shop--a needless precaution, as at this hour
no customers ever turned into it. He was an old man, and seemed very old
and infirm by the dim light. He was thin and spare, with that peculiar
spareness which results from the habit of always eating less than one
can. His teeth, which had never had too much to do, had gone some years
ago, and his cheeks fell in rather deeply. A fine network of wrinkles
puckered about the corners of his eyes and mouth. He stooped a good deal,
and moved about with the slowness and deliberation of age. Yet his face
was very pleasant--a cheery, gentle, placid face, lighted up with a smile
now and then, but with sufficient rareness to make it the more welcome
and the more noticed when it came.

Old Oliver had a visitor this hot evening, a neat, small, dapper woman,
with a little likeness to himself, who had been putting his room to
rights, and looking to the repairs needed by his linen. She was just
replacing her needle, cotton, and buttons in an old-fashioned housewife,
which she always carried in her pocket, and was then going to put on her
black silk bonnet and coloured shawl, before bidding him goodbye.

"Eh, Charlotte," said Oliver, after drawing a long and toilsome breath,
"what would I give to be a-top of the Wrekin, seeing the sun set this
evening! Many and many's the summer afternoon we've spent there when we
were young, and all of us alive. Dost remember how many a mile of country
we could see all round us, and how fresh the air blew across the
thousands of green fields? Why, I saw Snowdon once, more than sixty miles
off, when my eyes were young and it was a clear sunset. I always think of
the top of the Wrekin when I read of Moses going up Mount Pisgah and
seeing all the land about him, north and south, east and west. Eh, lass!
there's a change in us all now!"

"Ah! it's like another world!" said the old woman, shaking her head
slowly. "All the folks I used to sew for at Aston, and Uppington, and
Overlehill, they'd mostly be gone or dead by now. It wouldn't seem like
the same place at all. And now there's none but you and me left, brother
James. Well, well! its lonesome, growing old."

"Yes, lonesome, yet not exactly lonesome," replied old Oliver, in a
dreamy voice. "I'm growing dark a little, and just a trifle deaf, and I
don't feel quite myself like I used to do; but I've got something I
didn't use to have. Sometimes of an evening, before I've lit the gas,
I've a sort of a feeling as if I could almost see the Lord Jesus, and
hear him talking to me. He looks to me something like our eldest brother,
him that died when we were little. Charlotte, thee remembers him? A
white, quiet, patient face, with a smile like the sun shining behind
clouds. Well, whether it's only a dream or no I cannot tell, but there's
a face looks at me, or seems to look at me out of the dusk; and I think
to myself, maybe the Lord Jesus says, 'Old Oliver's lonesome down there
in the dark, and his eyes growing dim. I'll make myself half-plain to
him.' Then he comes and sits here with me for a little while."

"Oh, that's all fancy as comes with you living quite alone," said
Charlotte, sharply.

"Perhaps so! perhaps so!" answered the old man, with a meek sigh; "but I
should be very lonesome without that."

They did not speak again until Charlotte had given a final shake to the
bed in the corner, upon which her bonnet and shawl had been lying. She
put them on neatly and primly; and when she was ready to go she spoke
again in a constrained and mysterious manner.

"Heard nothing of Susan, I suppose?" she said.

"Not a word," answered old Oliver, sadly. "It's the only trouble I've
got. That were the last passion I ever went into, and I was hot and
hasty, I know."

"So you always used to be at times," said his sister.

"Ah! but that passion was the worst of all," he went on, speaking
slowly. "I told her if she married young Raleigh, she should never darken
my doors again--never again. And she took me at my word though she might
have known it was nothing but father's hot temper. Darken my doors! Why,
the brightest sunshine I could have 'ud be to see her come smiling into
my shop, like she used to do at home."

"Well, I think Susan ought to have humbled herself," said Charlotte.
"It's going on for six years now, and she's had time enough to see her
folly. Do you know where she is?"

"I know nothing about her," he answered, shaking his head sorrowfully.
"Young Raleigh was wild, very wild, and that was my objection to him;
but I didn't mean Susan to take me at my word. I shouldn't speak so
hasty and hot now."

"And to think. I'd helped to bring her up so genteel, and with such
pretty manners!" cried the old woman, indignantly. "She might have done
so much better with her cleverness too. Such a milliner as she might have
turned out! Well good-bye, brother James, and don't go having any more of
those visions; they're not wholesome for you."

"I should be very lonesome without them," answered Oliver. "Good-bye,
Charlotte, good-bye, and God bless you. Come again as soon as you can."

He went with her to the door, and stayed to watch her along the quiet
alley, till she turned into the street. Then, with a last nod to the back
of her bonnet, as she passed out of his sight, he returned slowly into
his dark shop, put up the flap of the counter, and retreated to the
darker room within. Hot as it was, he fancied it was growing a little
chilly with the coming of the night, and he drew on his old coat, and
threw a handkerchief over his white head, and then sat down in the dusk,
looking out into his shop and the alley beyond it. He must have fallen
into a doze after a while, being overcome with the heat, and lulled by
the constant hum of the streets, which reached his dull ear in a softened
murmur; for at length he started up almost in a fright, and found that
complete darkness had fallen upon him suddenly, as it seemed to him. A
church clock was striking nine, and his shop was not closed yet. He went
out hurriedly to put the shutters up.




CHAPTER II.

WAIFS AND STRAYS.


In the shop it was not yet so dark but that old Oliver could see his way
out with the shutters, which during the day occupied a place behind the
door. He lifted the flap of the counter, and was about to go on with his
usual business, when a small voice, trembling a little, and speaking from
the floor at his very feet, caused him to pause suddenly.

"Please, rere's a little girl here," said the voice.

Oliver stooped down to bring his eyes nearer to the ground, until he
could make out the indistinct outline of the figure of a child, seated on
his shop floor, and closely hugging a dog in her arms. Her face looked
small to him; it was pale, as if she had been crying quietly, and though
he could not see them, a large tear stood on each of her cheeks.

"What little girl are you?" he asked, almost timidly.

"Rey called me Dolly," answered the child.

"Haven't you any other name?" inquired old Oliver

"Nosing else but Poppet," she said; "rey call me Dolly sometimes, and
Poppet sometimes. Ris is my little dog, Beppo."

She introduced the dog by pushing its nose into his hand, and Beppo
complacently wagged his tail and licked the old man's withered fingers.

"What brings you here in my shop, my little woman?" asked Oliver.

"Mammy brought me," she said, with a stifled sob; "she told me run in
rere, Dolly, and stay till mammy comes back, and be a good girl always.
Am I a good girl?"

"Yes, yes," he answered, soothingly; "you're a very good little girl, I'm
sure; and mother 'ill come back soon, very soon. Let us go to the door,
and look for her."

He took her little hand in his own; such a little hand it felt, that he
could not help tightening his fingers fondly over it; and then they stood
for a few minutes on the door-sill, while old Oliver looked anxiously up
and down the alley. At the greengrocer's next door there flared a bright
jet of gas, and the light shone well into the deepening darkness. But
there was no woman in sight, and the only person about was a ragged boy,
barefoot and bareheaded with no clothing but a torn pair of trousers,
very jagged about the ankles, and a jacket through which his thin
shoulders displayed themselves. He was lolling in the lowest window-sill
of the house opposite, and watched Oliver and the little girl looking
about them with sundry signs of interest and amusement.

"She ain't nowhere in sight," he called across to them after a while,
"nor won't be, neither, I'll bet you. You're looking out for the little
un's mother, ain't you, old master?"

"Yes," answered Oliver; "do you know anything about her, my boy?"

"Nothink," he said, with a laugh; "only she looked as if she were up to
some move, and as I'd nothink particular on hand, I just followed her.
She was somethink like my mother, as is dead, not fat or rosy, you know,
with a bit of a bruise about her eye, as if somebody had been fighting
with her. I thought there'd be a lark when she left the little 'un in
your shop, so I just stopped to see. She bolted as if the bobbies were
after her."

"How long ago?" asked Oliver, anxiously.

"The clocks had just gone eight," he answered; "I've been watching for
you ever since."

"Why! that's a full hour ago," said the old man, looking wistfully down
the alley; "it's time she was come back again for her little girl."

[Illustration: THE LITTLE STRANGER.]

But there was no symptom of anybody coming to claim the little girl, who
stood very quietly at his side, one hand holding the dog fast by his ear,
and the other still lying in Oliver's grasp. The boy hopped on one foot
across the narrow alley, and looked up with bright, eager eyes into the
old man's face.

"I say," he said, earnestly, "don't you go to give her up to the p'lice.
They'd take her to the house, and that's worse than the jail. Bless yer!
they'd never take up a little thing like that to jail for a wagrant. You
just give her to me, and I'll take care of her. It 'ud be easy enough to
find victuals for such a pretty little thing as her. You give her up to
me, I say."

"What's your name?" asked Oliver, clasping the little hand tighter, "and
where do you come from?"

"From nowhere particular," answered the boy; "and my name's Antony; Tony,
for short. I used to have another name; mother told it me afore she died,
but it's gone clean out o' my head. Tony I am, anyhow, and you can call
me by it, if you choose."

"How old are you, Tony?" inquired Oliver, still lingering on the
threshold, and looking up and down with his dim eyes.

"Bless yer! I don't know," replied Tony; "I weren't much bigger nor
her when mother died, and I've found myself ever since. I never had
any father."

"Found yourself!" repeated the old man, absently.

"Ah, it's not bad in the summer," said Tony, more earnestly than before:
"and I could find for the little 'un easy enough. I sleep anywhere, in
Covent Garden sometimes, and the parks--anywhere as the p'lice 'ill let
me alone. You won't go to give her up to them p'lice, will you now, and
she so pretty?"

He spoke in a beseeching tone, and old Oliver looked down upon him
through his spectacles, with a closer survey than he had given to him
before. The boy's face was pale and meagre, with an unboyish sharpness
about it, though he did not seem more than nine or ten years old. His
glittering eyes were filled with tears, and his colourless lips quivered.
He wiped away the tears roughly upon the ragged sleeve of his jacket.

"I never were such a baby before," said Tony, "only she is such a nice
little thing, and such a tiny little 'un. You'll keep her, master, won't
you? or give her up to me?"

"Ay, ay! I'll take care of her," answered Oliver, "till her mother comes
back for her. She'll come pretty soon, I know. But she wants her supper
now, doesn't she?"

He stooped down to bring his face nearer to the child's, and she raised
her hand to it, and stroked his cheek with her warm, soft fingers.

"Beppo wants his supper, too," she said, in a clear, shrill, little
voice, which penetrated easily through old Oliver's deafened hearing.

"And Beppo shall have some supper as well as the little woman," he
answered. "I'll put the shutters up now, and leave the door ajar, and the
gas lit for mother to see when she comes back; and if mother shouldn't
come back to night, the little woman will sleep in my bed, won't she?"

"Dolly's to be a good girl till mammy comes back," said the child,
plaintively, and holding harder by Beppo's ear.

"Let me put the shutters up, master," cried Tony, eagerly; "I won't
charge you nothink, and I'll just look round in the morning to see how
you're getting along. She is such a very little thing."

The shutters were put up briskly, and then Tony took a long, farewell
gaze of the old man and the little child, but he could not offer to touch
either of them. He glanced at his hands, and Oliver did the same; but
they both shook their heads.

"I'll have a wash in the morning afore I come," he said, nodding
resolutely; "good-bye, guv'ner; goodbye, little 'un."

Old Oliver went in, leaving his door ajar, and his gas lit, as he had
said. He fed the hungry child with bread and butter, and used up his
half-pennyworth of milk, which he bought for himself every evening. Then
he lifted her on to his knee, with Beppo in her arms, and sat for a long
while waiting. The little head nodded, and Dolly sat up, unsteadily
striving hard to keep awake; but at last she let Beppo drop to the floor,
while she herself fell upon the old man's breast, and lay there without
moving. It chimed eleven o'clock at last, and Oliver knew it was of no
use to watch any longer.

He managed to undress his little charge with gentle, though trembling
hands, and then he laid her down on his bed, putting his only pillow
against the wall to make a soft nest for the tender and sleepy child. She
roused herself for a minute, and stared about her, gazing steadily, with
large, tearful eyes, into his face. Then as he sat down on the bedstead
beside her, to comfort her as well as he could, she lifted herself up,
and knelt down, with her folded hands laid against his shoulder.

"Dolly vewy seepy," she lisped, "but must say her prayers always."

"What are your prayers, my dear?" he asked.

"On'y God bless gan-pa, and father, and mammy, and poor Beppo, and make
me a good girl," murmured the drowsy voice, as Dolly closed her eyes
again, and fell off into a deep sleep the next moment.




CHAPTER III.

A LITTLE PEACEMAKER.


It was a very strange event which had befallen old Oliver. He went back
to his own chair, where he smoked his Broseley pipe every night, and sank
down in it, rubbing his legs softly; for it was a long time since he had
nursed any child, and even Dolly's small weight was a burden to him. Her
tiny clothes were scattered up and down, and there was no one beside
himself to gather them together, and fold them straight. In shaking out
her frock a letter fell from it, and Oliver picked it up wondering
whoever it could be for. It was directed to himself, "Mr. James Oliver,
News-agent," and he broke the seal with eager expectation. The contents
were these, written in a handwriting which he knew at first sight to be
his daughter's:--

"DEAR FATHER,

"I am very very sorry I ever did anything to make you angry with me. This
is your poor Susan's little girl, as is come to be a little peacemaker
betwixt you and me. I'm certain sure you'll never turn her away from your
door. I'm going down to Portsmouth for three days, because he listed five
months ago, and his regiment's ordered out to India, and he sails on
Friday. So I thought I wouldn't take my little girl to be in the way, and
I said I'll leave her with father till I come back, and her pretty little
ways will soften him towards me, and we'll live all together in peace and
plenty till his regiment comes home again, poor fellow. For he's very
good to me when he's not in liquor, which is seldom for a man. Please do
forgive me for pity's sake, and for Christ's sake, if I'm worthy to use
his name, and do take care of my little girl till I come home to you both
on Friday, From your now dutiful daughter,

"POOR SUSAN."

The tears rolled fast down old Oliver's cheeks as he read this letter
through twice, speaking the words half aloud to himself. Why! this was
his own little grandchild, then--his very own! And no doubt Susan had
christened her Dorothy, after her own mother, his dear wife, who had died
so many years ago. Dolly was the short for Dorothy, and in early times he
had often called his wife by that name. He had turned his gas off and
lighted a candle, and now he took it up and went to the bedside to look
at his new treasure. The tiny face lying upon his pillow was rosy with
sleep, and the fair curly hair was tossed about in pretty disorder. His
spectacles grew very dim indeed, and he was obliged to polish them
carefully on his cotton handkerchief before he could see his
grand-daughter plainly enough. Then he touched her dimpled cheek
tremblingly with the end of his finger, and sobbed out, "Bless her! bless
her!" He returned to his chair, his head shaking a good deal before he
could regain his composure; and it was not until he had kindled his pipe,
and was smoking it, with his face turned towards the sleeping child, that
he felt at all like himself again.

"Dear Lord!" he said, half aloud, between the whiffs of his pipe, "dear
Lord! how very good thou art to me! Didst thee not say, 'I'll not leave
thee comfortless, I'll come to thee?' I know what that means, bless thy
name; and the good Spirit has many a time brought me comfort, and cheered
my heart. I know thou didst not leave me alone before. No, no! that was
far from thee, Lord. Alone!--why, thou'rt always here; and now there's
the little lass as well. Lonesome!--they don't know thee, Lord, and they
don't know me. Thou'rt here, with the little lass and me. Yes,
yes,--yes."

He murmured the word "yes" in a tone of contentment over and over again,
until, the pipe being finished, he prepared for sleep also. But no sleep
came to the old man. He was too full of thought, and too fearful of the
child waking in the night and wanting something. The air was close and
hot, and now and then a peal of thunder broke overhead; but a profound
peace and tranquillity, slightly troubled by his new joy, held possession
of him. His grandchild was there, and his daughter was coming back to him
in three days.

Oh, how he would welcome her! He would not let her speak one word of her
wilfulness and disobedience, and the long, cruel neglect which had left
him in ignorance of where she lived, and what had become of her. It was
partly his fault, for having been too hard upon her, and too hasty and
hot-tempered. He had learnt better since then.




CHAPTER IV.

OLD OLIVER'S MASTER.


Very early in the morning, before the tardy daylight could creep into the
darkened room, old Oliver was up and busy. He had been in the habit of
doing for himself, as he called it, ever since his daughter had forsaken
him, and he was by nature fastidiously clean and neat. But now there
would be additional duties for him during the next three days; for there
would be Dolly to wash, and dress, and provide breakfast for. Every few
minutes he stole a look at her lying still asleep; and as soon as he
discovered symptoms of awaking, he hastily lifted Beppo on to the bed,
that her opening eyes should be greeted by some familiar sight. She
stretched out her wonderful little hands, and caught hold of the dog's
rough head before venturing to lift her eyelids, while Oliver looked on
in speechless delight. At length she ventured to peep slyly at him, and
then addressed herself to Beppo.

"What am I to call ris funny old man, Beppo?" she asked.

"I am your grandpa, my darling," said Oliver, in his softest voice.

"Are you God-bless-gan-pa?" inquired Dolly, sitting up on her pillow, and
staring very hard with her blue eyes into his wrinkled face.

"Yes, I am," he answered, looking at her anxiously.

"Dolly knows," she said, counting upon her little fingers; "rere's
father, and mammy, and Beppo; and now rere's gan-pa. Dolly'll get up
now."

She flung her arms suddenly about his neck and kissed him, while old
Oliver trembled with intense joy. It was quite a marvel to him how she
helped him to dress her, laughing merrily at the strange mistakes he made
in putting on her clothes the wrong side before; and when he assured her
that her mother would come back very soon, she seemed satisfied to put up
with any passing inconvenience. The shop, with its duties, and the
necessity of getting in his daily stock of newspapers, entirely slipped
his memory; and he was only recalled to it by a very loud rapping at the
door as he was pouring out Dolly's breakfast. To his great surprise he
discovered that he had forgotten to take down his shutters, though it was
past the hour when his best customers passed by.

The person knocking proved to be none other than Tony, who greeted the
old man's appearance with a prolonged whistle, and a grave and
reproachful stare.

"Come," he said, in a tone of remonstrance, "this'll never do, you know.
Business is business, and must be minded. You pretty nearly frightened
me into fits; anybody could have knocked me down with a straw when I see
the shutters up. How is she?"

"She's very well, thank you, my boy," answered Oliver, meekly.

"Mother not turned up, I guess?" said Tony.

"No; she comes on Friday," he replied.

Tony winked, and put his tongue into his cheek; but he gave utterance to
no remark until after the shutters were in their place. Then he surveyed
himself as well as he could, with an air of satisfaction. His face and
hands were clean, and his skin looked very white through the holes in his
tattered clothes; even his feet, except for an unavoidable under surface
of dust, were unsoiled. His jacket and trousers appeared somewhat more
torn than the evening before; but they bore every mark of having been
washed also.

"Washed myself early in the morning, afore the bobbies were much about,"
remarked Tony, "in the fountains at Charing Cross; but I hadn't time to
get my rags done, so I did 'em down under the bridge, when the tide were
going down; but I could only give 'em a bit of a swill and a ring out.
Anyhow, I'm a bit cleaner this morning than last night, master."

"To be sure, to be sure," answered Oliver. "Come in, my boy, and I'll
give you a bit of breakfast with her and me."

"You haven't got sich a thing as a daily paper, have you?" asked Tony, in
a patronizing tone.

"Not to-day's paper, I'm afraid," he said.

"I'm afraid not," continued Tony; "overslept yourself, eh? Not as I can
read myself; but there are folks going by as can, and might p'raps buy
one here as well as anywhere else. Shall I run and get 'em for you, now
I'm on my legs?"

Oliver looked questioningly at the boy, who returned a frank, honest
gaze, and said, "Honour bright!" as he held out his hand for the money.
There was some doubt in the old man's mind after Tony had disappeared as
to whether he had not done a very foolish thing; but he soon forgot it
when he returned to the breakfast-table; and long before he himself could
have reached the place and returned, Tony was back again with his right
number of papers.

Before many minutes Tony was sitting upon an old box at a little distance
from the table, where Oliver sat with his grandchild. A basin of coffee
and a large hunch of bread rested upon his knees, and Beppo was sniffing
round him with a doubtful air. Dolly was shy in this strange company,
and ate her breakfast with a sedate gravity which filled both her
companions with astonishment and admiration. When the meal was finished,
old Oliver took his daughter's letter from his waistcoat pocket and read
it aloud to Tony, who listened with undivided interest.

"Then she's your own little 'un," he said, with a sigh of disappointment.
"You'll never give her up to me, if you get tired of her,--nor to the
p'lice neither," he added, with a brightening face.

"No, no, no!" answered Oliver, emphatically. "Besides, her mother's
coming on Friday. I wouldn't give her up for all the world, bless her!"

"And he's 'listed!" said Tony, in a tone of envy. "They wouldn't take me
yet a while, if I offered to go. But who's that she speaks of?--'for
Christ's sake, if I am worthy to use his name.' Who is he?"

"Don't you know?" asked Oliver.

"No, never heard tell of him before," he answered. "Is he any friend o'
yours?" [A]

[Footnote A: It may be necessary to assure some readers that this
ignorance is not exaggerated. The City Mission Reports, and similar
records, show that such cases are too frequent.]

"Ay!" said Oliver; "he's my only friend, my best friend. And he's my
master, besides."

"And she thinks he'd be angry if you turned the little girl away?"
pursued Tony.

"Yes, yes; he'd be very angry," said old Oliver, thoughtfully; "it 'ud
grieve him to his heart. Why, he's always loved little children, and
never had them turned away from himself, whatever he was doing. If she
hadn't been my own little girl, I daren't have turned her out of my
doors. No, no, dear Lord, thee knows as I'd have taken care of her, for
thy sake."

He spoke absently, in a low voice, as though talking to some person
whom Tony could not see, and the boy was silent a minute or two,
thinking busily.

"How long have you worked for that master o' yours?" he asked, at last.

"Not very long," replied Oliver, regretfully. "I used to fancy I was
working for him years and years ago; but, dear me! it was poor sort
o'work; and now I can't do very much. Only he knows how old I am, and he
doesn't care so that I love him, which I do, Tony."

"I should think so!" said the boy, falling again into busy thought, from
which he aroused himself by getting up from his box, and rubbing his
fingers through his wet and tangled hair.

"He takes to children and little 'uns?" he said, in a questioning tone.

"Ay, dearly!" answered old Oliver.

"I reckon he'd scarcely take me for a man yet," said Tony, at the same
time drawing himself up to his full height; "though I don't know as I
should care to work for him. I'd rather have a crossing, and be my own
master. But if I get hard up, do you think he'd take to me, if you spoke
a word for me?"

"Are you sure you don't know anything about him?" asked Oliver.

"Not I; how should I?" answered Tony. "Why, you don't s'pose as I know
all the great folks in London, though I've seen sights and sights of 'em
riding about in their carriages. I told you I weren't much bigger nor her
there when mother died, and I've picked up my living up and down the
streets anyhow, and other lads have helped me on, till I can help 'em on
now. It don't cost much to keep a boy on the streets. There's nothink to
pay for coals, or rent, or beds, or furniture, or anythink; only your
victuals, and a rag now and then. All I want's a broom and a crossing,
and then shouldn't I get along just? But I don't know how to get 'em."

"Perhaps the Lord Jesus would give them to you, if you'd ask him," said
Oliver, earnestly.

"Who's he?" inquired Tony, with an eager face.

"Him--Christ. It's his other name," answered the old man.

"Ah! I see," he said, nodding. "Well, if I can't get 'em myself,
I'll think about it. He'll want me to work for him, you know. Where
does he live?"

"I'll tell you all about him, if you'll come to see me," replied Oliver.

"Well," said the boy, "I'll just look in after Friday, and see if the
little 'un's mother's come back. Goodbye,--good-bye, little miss."

He could take Dolly's hand into his own this morning, and he looked down
curiously at it,--a small, rosy, dimpled hand, such as he had never seen
before so closely. A lump rose in his throat, and his eyelids smarted
with tears again. It was such a little thing, such a pretty little thing,
he said to himself, covering it fondly with his other hand. There was no
fear that Tony would forget to come back to old Oliver's house.

"Thank you for my breakfast," he said, with a choking voice; "only if
I do come to see you, it'll be to see her again--not for anythink as
I can get."




CHAPTER V.

FORSAKEN AGAIN.


The next three days were a season of unmixed happiness to old Oliver. The
little child was so merry, yet withal so gentle and sweet-tempered, that
she kept him in a state of unwearied delight, without any alloy of
anxiety or trouble. She trotted at his side with short, running
footsteps, when he went out early in the morning to fetch his daily stock
of newspapers. She watched him set his room tidy, and made believe to
help him by dusting the legs and seats of his two chairs. She stood with
folded hands and serious face, looking on as he was busy with his
cooking. When she was not thus engaged she played contentedly with Beppo,
prattling to him in such a manner, that Oliver often forgot what he was
about while listening to her. She played with him, too, frolicsome little
games of hide-and-seek, in which he grew as eager as herself; and
sometimes she stole his spectacles, or handkerchief, or anything she
could lay her mischievous fingers upon to hide away in some unthought-of
spot; while her shrewd, cunning little face put on an expression of
profound gravity as old Oliver sought everywhere for them.

As Friday evening drew near, the old man's gladness took a shade of
anxiety. His daughter was coming home to him, and his heart was full of
unutterable joy and gratitude; but he did not know exactly how they
should go on in the future. He was averse to change; yet this little
house, with its single room, to which he had moved when she forsook him,
was too scanty in its accommodation. He had made up a rude sort of bed
for himself under the counter in the shop, and was quite ready to give up
his own to Susan and his little love, as he called Dolly; but would Susan
let him have his own way in this, and many other things? He provided a
sumptuous tea, and added a fresh salad to it from the greengrocer's next
door; but though he and Dolly waited and watched till long after the
child's bed-time, taking occasional snatches of bread and butter, still
Susan did not arrive. At length a postman entered the little shop with a
noise which made Oliver's heart beat violently, and tossed a letter down
upon the counter. He carried it to the door, where there was still light
enough to read it, and saw that it was in Susan's handwriting.

"MY DEAR AND DEAREST FATHER,

"My heart is almost broke, betwixt one thing and another. His regiment
is to set sail immediate, and the colonel's lady has offered me very
handsome wages to go out with her as lady's maid, her own having
disappointed her at the last moment; which I could do very well, knowing
the dressmaking. He said, 'Do come, Susan, and I'll never get drunk
again, so help me God; and if you don't, I shall go to the bad
altogether; for I do love you, Susan.' I said, 'Oh my child!' And the
colonel's lady said, 'She's safe with her grandfather; and if he's a
good man, as you say he is, he'll take the best of care of her. I'll
give you three pounds to send him from here, and we'll send more from
Calcutta.' So they overpersuaded me, and there isn't even time to come
back to London, for we are going in a few hours. You'll take care of my
little dear, I know, you and aunt Charlotte. I've sent a little box of
clothes for her by the railway, and what more she wants aunt Charlotte
will see to, I'm sure, and do her mending, and see to her manners till I
come home. Oh! if I could only hear you say 'Susan, my dear, I forgive
you, and love you almost as much as ever,' I'd go with a lighter heart,
and be almost glad to leave Dolly to be a comfort to you. She will be a
comfort to you, though she is so little, I'm sure. Tell her mammy says
she must be a good girl always till mammy comes back. A hundred thousand
kisses for my dear father and my little girl. We shall come home as soon
as ever we can; but I don't rightly know where India is. I think it's my
bounden duty to go with him, as things have turned out. Pray God take
care of us all.

"Your loving, sorrowful daughter,

"SUSAN RALEIGH."




CHAPTER VI.

THE GRASSHOPPER A BURDEN.


It was some time before the full meaning of Susan's letter penetrated
to her father's brain; but when it did, he was not at first altogether
pained by it. True, it was both a grief and disappointment to think
that his daughter, instead of returning to him, was already on her way
across the sea to a very distant land. But as this came slowly to his
mind, there came also the thought that there would now be no one to
divide with him the treasure committed to his charge. The little child
would belong to him alone. They might go on still, living as they had
done these last three days, and being all in all to one another. If he
could have chosen, his will would certainly have been for Susan to
return to them; but, since he could not have his choice, he felt that
there were some things which would be all the happier for him because
of her absence.

He put Dolly to bed, and then went out to shut up the shop for the night.
As he carried in his feeble arms a single shutter at a time, he heard
himself hailed by a boy's voice, which was lowered to a low and
mysterious whisper, and which belonged to Tony, who took the shutter out
of his hands.

"S'pose the mother turned up all right?" he said, pointing with his thumb
through the half open door.

"No," answered Oliver. "I've had another letter from her, and she's
gone out to India with her husband, and left the little love to live
alone with me."

"But whatever'll the Master say to that?" inquired Tony.

"What master?" asked old Oliver.

"Him--Lord Jesus Christ. What'll he say to her leaving you and the
little 'un again?" said Tony, with an eager face.

"Oh! he says a woman ought to leave her father, and keep to her husband,"
he answered, somewhat sadly. "It's all right, that is."

"I s'pose he'll help you to take care of the little girl," said Tony.

"Ay will he; him and me," replied old Oliver; "there's no fear of that.
You never read the Testament, of course, my boy?"

"Can't read, I told you," he answered. "But what's that?"

"A book all about him, the Lord Jesus," said Oliver, "what he's done, and
what he's willing to do for people. If you'll come of an evening, I'll
read it aloud to you and my little love. She'll listen as quiet and good
as any angel."

"I'll come to-morrow," answered Tony, readily; and he lingered about the
doorway until he heard the old man inside fasten the bolts and locks, and
saw the light go out in the pane of glass over the door. Then he
scampered noiselessly with his naked feet along the alley in the
direction of Covent Garden, where he purposed to spend the night, if left
undisturbed.

Old Oliver went back into his room, where the tea-table was still set
out for his Susan's welcome; but he had no heart to clear the things
away. A chill came over his spirit as his eye fell upon the preparations
he had made to give her such a cordial greeting, that she would know at
once he had forgiven her fully. He lit his pipe, and sat pondering
sorrowfully over all the changes that had happened to him since those
old, far-away days when he was a boy, in the pleasant, fresh, healthy
homestead at the foot of the Wrekin. He felt all of a sudden how very old
he was; a poor, infirm, hoary old man. His sight was growing dim even,
and his hearing duller every day; he was sure of it. His limbs ached
oftener, and he was earlier wearied in the evening; yet he could not
sleep soundly at nights, as he had been used to do. But, worst of all,
his memory was not half as good as it had been. Sometimes, of late, he
had caught himself reading a newspaper quite a fortnight old, and he had
not found it out till he happened to see the date at the top. He could
not recollect the names of people as he did once; for many of his
customers to whom he supplied the monthly magazines were obliged to tell
him their names and the book they wanted every time, before he could
remember them. And now there was this young child cast upon him to be
thought of, and cared and worked for. It was very thoughtless and
reckless of Susan! Suppose he should forget or neglect any of her tender
wants! Suppose his dull ear should grow too deaf to catch the pretty
words she said when she asked for something! Suppose he should not see
when the tears were rolling down her cheeks, and nobody would comfort
her! It might very easily be so. He was not the hale man he was when
Susan was just such another little darling, and he could toss her up to
the ceiling in his strong hands. It was as much as he could do to lift
Dolly on to his feeble knee, and nurse her quietly, not even giving her a
ride to market upon it; and how stiff he felt if she sat there long!

Old Oliver laid aside his pipe, and rested his worn face upon his hands,
while the heavy tears came slowly and painfully to his eyes, and
trickled down his withered cheeks. His joy had fled, and his unmingled
gladness had faded quite away. He was a very poor, very old man; and the
little child was very, very young. What would become of them both, alone
in London?

He did not know whether it was a voice speaking within himself in his own
heart, or words whispered very softly into his ear; but he heard a low,
quiet, still, small voice, which said, "Even to your old age I am he,
and even to hoar hairs I will carry you: I have made, and I will bear;
even I will carry, and will deliver you." And old Oliver answered, with a
sob, "Yes, Lord, yes!"




CHAPTER VII.

THE PRINCE OF LIFE.


In the new life which had now fairly begun for Oliver, it was partly as
he had foreseen; he was apt to forget many things, and he had a fretting
consciousness of this forgetfulness. When he was in the house playing
with Dolly, or reading to her, the shop altogether slipped away from his
memory, and he was only recalled to it by the loud knocking or shouting
of some customer in it. On the other hand, when he was sitting behind the
counter looking for news from India in the papers, news in which he was
already profoundly concerned, though it was impossible that Susan could
yet have reached it, he grew so absorbed, that he did not know how the
time was passing by, and both he and his little grand-daughter were
hungry before he had thought of getting ready any meal. He tried all
kinds of devices for strengthening his failing memory; but in vain. He
even forgot that he did forget; and when Dolly was laughing and
frolicking about him he grew a child again, and felt himself the happiest
man in London.

The person who took upon himself the heaviest weight of anxiety and
responsibility about Dolly was Tony, who began to make it his daily
custom to pass by the house at the hour when old Oliver ought to be going
for his morning papers; and if he found no symptom of life about the
place, he did not leave off kicking and butting at the shop-door until
the owner appeared. It was very much the same thing at night, when the
time for shutting up came; though it generally happened now that the boy
was paying his friends an evening visit, and was therefore at hand to put
up the shutters for Oliver. Tony could not keep away from the place.
Though he felt a boy's contemptuous pity for the poor old man's declining
faculties as regarded business, he had a very high veneration for his
learning. Nothing pleased him better than to sit upon the old box near
the door, his elbows on his knees, and his chin upon his hands, while
Oliver read aloud, with Dolly upon his knee, her curly hair and small
pretty features making a strange contrast to his white head and withered,
hollow face. Tony, who had never had anything to love except a stray cur
or two, which he had always lost after a few days' friendship, felt as if
he could have suffered himself to be put to death for either of these
two; while Beppo came in for a large share of his unclaimed affections.
The chief subject of their reading was the life of the Master, who was so
intimately dear to the heart of old Oliver. Tony was very eager to learn
all he could of this great friend who did so much for the old man, and
who might perhaps be persuaded some day or other to take a little notice
of him, if he should fail to get a crossing for himself. Oliver, in his
long, unbroken solitude of six years, had fallen into a notion, amounting
to a firm belief, that his Lord was not dead and far off, as most of the
world believed, but was a very present, living friend, always ready to
listen to the meanest of his words. He had a vague suspicion that his
faith had got into a different course from that of most other people; and
he bore meekly the rebukes of his sister Charlotte for the
unwholesomeness of his visions. But none the less, when he was alone, he
talked and prayed to, and spoke to Tony of this Master, as one who was
always very near at hand.

"I s'pose he takes a bit o' notice o' the little un," said Tony, "when he
comes in now and then of an evening."

"Ay, does he!" answered Oliver, earnestly. "My boy, he loves every child
as if it was his very own, and it is his own in one sense. Didn't I read
you last night how he said, 'Suffer the little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not.' Why, he'd love all the young children in the world,
if they weren't hindered from coming to him."

"I should very much like to see him some day," pursued Tony,
reflectively, "and the rest of them,--Peter, and John, and them. I s'pose
they are getting pretty old by now, aren't they?"

"They are dead," said Oliver.

"All of 'em?" asked Tony.

"All of them," he repeated.

"Dear, dear!" cried Tony, his eyes glistening. "Whatever did the Master
do when they all died? I'm very sorry for him now. He's had a many
troubles, hasn't he?"

"Yes, yes," replied old Oliver, with a faltering voice. "He was called a
man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief. Nobody ever bore so many
troubles as him."

"How long is it ago since they all died?" asked Tony.

"I can't rightly say," he answered. "I heard once, but it is gone out of
my head. I only know it was the same when I was a boy. It must have been
a long, long time ago."

"The same when you was a boy!" repeated Tony, in a tone of
disappointment. "It must ha' been a long while ago. I thought all along
as the Master was alive now."

"So he is, so he is!" exclaimed old Oliver, eagerly. "I'll read to you
all about it. They put him to death on the cross, and buried him in a
rocky grave; but he is the Prince of Life, and he came to life again
three days after, and now he can die no more. His own words to John
were, 'I am he that liveth, and was dead; and behold, I am alive
forevermore.' What else can it mean but that he is living now, and will
never die again?"

Tony made no answer. He sat with his sharp, unboyish face gazing intently
into the fire; for by this time autumn had set in, and the old man was
chilly of an evening. A very uncertain, dim idea was dawning upon him
that this master and friend of old Oliver's was a being very different
from an ordinary man, however great and rich he might be. He had grown to
love the thought of him, and to listen attentively to the book which told
the manner of life he led; but it was a chill to find out that he could
not look into his face, and hear his voice, as he could Oliver's. His
heart was heavy, and very sad.

"I s'pose I can't see him, then," he murmured to himself, at last.

"Not exactly like other folks," said Oliver. "I think sometimes that
perhaps there's a little darkness of the grave where he was buried about
him still. But he sees us, and hears us. He himself says, 'Behold, I am
with you always.' I don't know whatever I should do, even with my little
love here, if I wasn't sure Jesus was with me as well."

"I'll tell you what I'll do," said Tony, after another pause. "I'm going
to ask him to give me somethink, and then if he does, I shall know he
hears me--I should very much like to have a broom and a crossing, and get
my living a bit more easy, if you please."

He had turned his face away from Oliver, and looked across into the
darkest corner of the room, where he could see nothing but shadow. The
old man felt puzzled, and somewhat troubled, but he only sighed softly to
himself; and opening the Testament, he read aloud in it till he was
calmed again, and Tony was listening in rapt attention.

"My boy," he said, as the hour came for Tony to go, "where are you
sleeping now?"

"Anywhere as I can get out o' the wind," he answered. "It's cold now,
nights--wery cold, master. But I must get along a bit farder on. Lodgings
is wery dear."

"I've been thinking," said Oliver, "that you'd find it better to have
some sort of a shake-down under my counter. I've heard say that
newspapers stitched together make a coverlid pretty near as warm as a
blanket; and we could do no harm by trying them, Tony. Look here, and see
how you'd like it."

It looked very much like a long box, and was not much larger. Two or
three beetles crawled sluggishly away as the light fell upon them, and
dusty cobwebs festooned all the corners; but to Tony it seemed so
magnificent an accommodation for sleeping, that he could scarcely
believe he heard old Oliver aright. He looked up into his face with a
sharp, incredulous gaze, ready to wink and thrust his tongue into his
cheek, if there was the least sign of making game of him. But the old
man was simply in earnest, and without a word Tony slipped down upon a
heap of paper shavings strewed within, drew his ragged jacket up about
his ears, and turned his face away, lest his tears should be seen. He
felt, a minute or two after, that a piece of an old rug was laid over
him, but he could say nothing; and old Oliver could not hear the sob
which broke from his lips.




CHAPTER VIII.

NO PIPE FOR OLD OLIVER.


As some weeks went by, and no crossing and broom had been given to Tony,
he began to suspect that Oliver was imposing upon him. Now that he slept
under the counter, he could often hear the old man talking aloud to his
invisible Friend as he smoked his pipe; and once or twice Tony crept
noiselessly to the door and watched him, after he had finished smoking,
kneel down and hide his face in his hands for some minutes together. But
the boy could see nothing, and his wish had not been granted; even
though, as he grew more instructed, he followed Oliver's example, and,
kneeling down behind the counter, whispered out a prayer for it. To be
sure his life was easier, especially the nights of it; for he never now
went hungry and starved to bed upon some cold, hard door-step. But it was
old Oliver who did that for him, not old Oliver's Master. So far as he
knew, the Lord Jesus had taken no notice whatever of him; and the
feeling, at first angry, softened down into a kind of patient grief,
which was quickly dying away into indifference.

Oliver had done himself no bad turn by offering a shelter to the solitary
lad. Tony always woke early in the morning, and if it rained he would run
for the papers, before turning out to "find for himself" in the streets.
He generally took care to be out of the way at meal-times; for it was as
much as the old man could do to provide for himself and Dolly. Sometimes
Tony saw him at the till, counting over his pence with rather a troubled
face. Once, after receiving a silver fourpenny piece, an extraordinary
and undreamed of event, Tony dropped it, almost with a feeling of guilt,
through the slit in the counter which communicated with the till. But
Oliver was so bewildered by its presence among the coppers, that he was
compelled to confess what he had done, saying it would have cost him
more than that for lodgings these cold nights.

"No, no, Tony," said Oliver; "you're very useful, fetching my papers, and
taking my little love out a-walking when the weather's fine. I ought to
pay you something, instead of taking it of you."

"Keep it for Dolly," said Tony, bashfully, and pushing the coin into her
little hand.

"Sank 'oo," answered Dolly, accepting it promptly; "me'll give 'oo twenty
kisses for it."

It seemed ample payment to Tony, who went down on his knees to have the
kisses pressed upon his face, which had never felt a kiss since his
mother died. But Oliver was not satisfied with the bargain, though he
drew Dolly to him fondly, and left the money in her hand.

"It 'ud buy you a broom, Tony," he said.

"Oh, I've give up asking for a crossing," he answered, dejectedly; "for
he never heard, or if he heard, he never cared; so it were no use going
on teazing either him or me."

"But this money 'ud buy the broom," said Oliver; "and if you looked
about you, you'd find the crossing. You never got such a bit of money
before, did you?"

"No, never," replied Tony. "A tall, thin gentleman, with a dark face and
very sharp eyes, gave it me for holding his horse, near Temple Bar. He
says, 'Mind you spend that well, my lad.' I'd know him again anywhere."

"You ought to have bought a broom," said Oliver, looking down at Dolly's
tightly-closed hand.

"Don't you go to take it of her," cried Tony. "Bless you! I'll get
another some way. I never thought that were the way he'd give me a broom
and a crossing. I thought it 'ud be sure to come direct."

"Well," said Oliver, after a little pause, "I'll save the fourpence for
you. It'll only be going without my pipe for a few nights, that's all.
That's nothing, Tony."

It did not seem much to Tony, who had no idea as yet of the pleasures of
smoking; yet he roused up just before falling into his deep sleep at
night to step softly to the door, and look in upon Oliver. He was sitting
in his arm-chair, with his pipe between his lips, but there was no
tobacco in it; and he was holding more eager converse than ever with his
unseen companion.

"Dear Lord!" he said, "I'd do ten times more than this for thee. Thou
hast said, 'Inasmuch as ye did it to one of the least of these, ye did it
unto me.' Tony's one of thy little ones. Dear Lord, do thee give him a
crossing, if it be thy blessed will. Do thee now, Lord."

Tony could hear no more, and he stole back to bed, his mind full of new
and vague hopes. He dreamed of the fourpenny piece, and the gentleman who
had given it, and of Dolly, who bought a wondrous broom with it, in his
dream, which swept a beautiful crossing of itself. But old Oliver sat
still a long time, talking half aloud; for his usual drowsiness did not
come to him. It was nearly five months now since Dolly was left to him,
and he felt his deafness and blindness growing upon him slowly. His
infirmities were not yet so burdensome as to make him dependent upon
others; but he felt himself gradually drawing near to such a state.
Dolly's clothes were getting sadly in want of mending; there was scarcely
a fastening left upon them, and neither he nor Tony could sew on a button
or tape. It was a long time--a very long time--since his sister had been
to see him; and, with the reluctancy of old age to any active exertion,
he had put off from week to week the task of writing to her to tell her
of Susan's departure, and the charge he had in his little grandchild. He
made up his mind that he would do it tomorrow.




CHAPTER IX.

A NEW BROOM AND A CROSSING.


The morning was a fine soft, sunny December day, such as comes sometimes
after a long season of rain and fog, and Tony proposed taking Dolly out
for a walk through the streets, to which Oliver gladly consented, as it
would give to him exactly the undisturbed leisure he needed for writing
his letter to Charlotte. But Dolly was not in her usual spirits; on the
contrary, she was grave and sober, and at length Tony, thinking she was
tired, sat down on a door-step, and took her upon his knee, to tell her
his dream of the wonderful broom which swept beautifully all by itself.
Dolly grew more and more pensive after hearing this, and sat silent for a
long time, with her small head resting thoughtfully upon her hand, as she
looked up and down the street.

"Dolly 'ud like to buy a boom," she said, at last, "a great, big boom;
and gan-pa 'ill smoke his pipe again to-night. Dolly's growing a big
girl; and me must be a good girl till mammy comes back. Let us go and buy
a big boom, Tony."

For a few minutes Tony tried to shake her resolution, and persuade her
to change her mind. He even tempted her with the sight of a doll in a
shop-window; but she remained steadfast, and he was not sorry to give in
at last. Since the idea had entered his head that the money had been
given to him for the purpose of buying a broom, he had rather regretted
parting with it, and he felt some anxiety lest he should not be allowed
a second chance. Dolly's light-heartedness had returned, and she
trotted cheerfully by his side as they walked on in search of a shop
where they could make their purchase. It was some time before they
found one, and they had already left behind them the busier
thoroughfares, and had reached a knot of quieter streets where there
were more foot-passengers, for the fine morning had tempted many people
out for pleasure as well as business. Tony was particular in his choice
of a broom, but once bought, he carried it over his shoulder, and went
on his way with Dolly in triumph.

They were passing along chattering busily, when Tony's eyes fell upon a
child about as old as Dolly, standing on the kerb-stone with a lady, who
looked anxiously across to the other side of the broad and very dirty
road, for the day before had been rainy. They were both finely dressed,
and the little girl had on new boots of shining leather, which it was
evident she was very much afraid of soiling. For a minute Tony only
looked on at their perplexity, but then he went up to them, holding Dolly
by the hand.

[Illustration: A NEW BROOM AND A CROSSING]

"If you'll take care of my little girl," he said, "I'll carry your
little girl across the road. I'm wery clean for a street-boy, all but my
feet, 'cos I've got this little girl to take care of; and I'll do it
wery gentle."

Both the lady and the child looked very searchingly into Tony's face. It
was pale and meagre; but there was a pleasant smile upon it, and his
eyes shone down upon the two children with a very loving light in them.
The lady took Dolly's hand in hers, nodding permission for him to carry
her little child over to the other side, and she waited for him to come
back to his own charge. Then she took out her purse, and put twopence
into his hand.

"Thank ye, my lady," said Tony; "but I didn't do it for that. I'm only
looking out for a crossing. Me and Dolly have bought this broom, and I'm
looking out for a place to make a good crossing in."

"Why not make one here?" asked the lady.

It seemed a good place to try one in; there were four roads meeting, and
a cab-stand close by. Plenty of people were passing to and fro, and the
middle of the road was very muddy. Tony begged a wisp of straw from a
cabman, to make a seat for Dolly in the sunshine under a blank bit of
wall, while he set to work with a will, feeling rather pleased than not
that the broom would not sweep of itself. A crossing was speedily made,
and for two or three hours Tony kept it well swept. By that time it was
twelve o'clock, and Dolly's dinner would be ready for her before they
could reach home, if old Oliver had not forgotten it. It seemed a great
pity to leave his new post so early. Most passers-by, certainly, had
appeared not to see him at all; but he had already received fivepence
halfpenny, chiefly in halfpence, from ladies who were out for their
morning's walk; and Dolly was enjoying herself very much in the sunshine,
receiving all the attention which he could spare from his crossing.
However a beginning was made. The broom and the crossing were his
property; and Tony's heart, beat fast with pride and gladness as he
carried the weary little Dolly all the way home again. He resolved to put
by half of his morning's earnings towards replacing the fourpenny-piece
she had given back to him; or perhaps he would buy her a beautiful doll,
dressed like a real lady.




CHAPTER X.

HIGHLY RESPECTABLE.


As old Oliver was stooping over his desk on the counter, and bringing his
dim eyes as close as he could to the letter he was writing, his shop-door
was darkened by the unexpected entrance of his sister Charlotte herself.
She was dressed with her usual extreme neatness, bordering upon
gentility, and she carried upon her arm a small fancy reticule, which
contained some fresh eggs, and a few russet apples, brought up expressly
from the country. Oliver welcomed her with more than ordinary pleasure,
and led her at once into his room behind. Charlotte's quick eyes detected
in an instant the traces of a child's dwelling there; and before Oliver
could utter a word, she picked up a little frock, and was holding it out
at arm's length, with an air of utter surprise and misgiving.

"Brother James!" she exclaimed, and her questioning voice, with its tone
of amazement, rang very clearly into his ears.

"It's my little Dolly's," he answered, in haste; "poor Susan's little
girl, who's gone out with her husband, young Raleigh, to India, because
he's 'listed, and left her little girl with me, her grandfather. She came
on the very last day you were here."

"Well, to be sure!" cried his sister, sinking down on a chair, but still
keeping the torn little frock in her hand.

"I've had two letters from poor Susan," he continued, in a tremulous
voice, "and I'll read them to you. The child's such a precious treasure
to me, Charlotte--such a little love, a hundred times better than any
gold; and now you're come to mend up her clothes a bit, and see what she
wants for me, there's nothing else that I desire. I was writing about her
to you when you came in."

"I thought you'd gone and picked up a lost child out of the streets,"
said Charlotte, with a sigh of relief.

"No, no; she's my own," he answered. "You hearken while I read poor
Susan's letters, and then you'll understand all about it. I couldn't give
her up for a hundred gold guineas--not for a deal more than that."

He knew Susan's letters off by heart, and did not need his spectacles,
nor a good light to read them by. Charlotte listened with emphatic nods,
and many exclamations of astonishment.

"That's very pretty of Susan," she remarked, "saying as Aunt Charlotte'll
do her sewing, and see to her manners. Ay, that I will! for who should
know manners better than me, who used to work for the Staniers, and dine
at the housekeeper's table, with the butler and all the head servants? to
be sure I'll take care that she does not grow up ungenteel. Where is the
dear child, brother James?"

"She's gone out for a walk this fine morning," he answered.

"Not alone?" cried Charlotte. "Who's gone out with her? A child under
five years old could never go out all alone in London: at least I should
think not. She might get run over and killed a score of times."

"Oh! there's a person with her I've every confidence in," replied Oliver.

"What sort of person; man or woman; male or female?" inquired Charlotte.

"A boy," he answered, in some confusion.

"A boy!" repeated his sister, as if he had said a monster. "What boy?"

"His name's Tony," he replied.

"But where does he come from? Is he respectable?" she pursued, fixing
him with her glittering eyes in a manner which did not tend to restore
his composure.

"I don't know, sister," he said in a feeble tone.

"Don't know, brother James!" she exclaimed. "Don't you know where
he lives?"

"He lives here," stammered old Oliver; "at least he sleeps here under the
counter; but he finds his own food about the streets."

Charlotte's consternation was past all powers of speech. Here was her
brother, a respectable man, who had seen better days, and whose sister
had been a dressmaker in good families, harbouring in his own house a
common boy off the streets, who, no doubt, was a thief and pickpocket,
with all sorts of low ways and bad language. At the same time there was
poor Susan's little girl dwelling under the same roof; the child whose
pretty manners she was to attend to, living in constant companionship
with a vulgar and vicious boy! What she might have said upon recovering
her speech, neither she nor Oliver ever knew; for at this crisis Tony
himself appeared, carrying Dolly and his new broom in his arms, and
looking very haggard and tattered himself, his bare feet black with mud,
and his bare head in a hopeless condition of confusion, and tangle.

"We've bought a geat big boom, gan-pa," shouted Dolly, as she came
through the shop, and before she perceived the presence of a stranger;
"and Tony and Dolly made a great big crossing, and dot ever so much
money--"

She was suddenly silent as soon as her eye fell upon the stranger; but
Aunt Charlotte had heard enough. She rose with great dignity from her
chair, and was about to address herself vehemently to Tony, when old
Oliver interrupted her.

"Charlotte," he said, "the boy's a good boy, and he's a help to me. I
couldn't send him away. He's one of the Lord's poor little ones as are
scattered up and down in this great city, without father or mother, and I
must do all I can for him. It isn't much; it's only a bed under the
counter, and a crust now and then, and he more than pays for it. You
musn't come betwixt me and Tony."

Old Oliver spoke so emphatically, that his sister was impressed and
silenced for a minute. She took the little girl away from Tony, and
glared at him with a sternness which made him feel very uncomfortable;
but her eye softened a little, and her face grew less harsh.

"You can't read or write?" she said, in a sharp voice.

"No," he answered.

"And you've not got any manners, or boots, or a cap on your head. You are
ragged and ignorant, and not fit to live with this little girl," she
continued, with energy. "If this little girl's mother saw her going about
with a boy in bare feet and a bare head, it 'ud break her heart I know.
So if you wish to stay here with my brother, Mr. Oliver, and this little
girl, Miss Dorothy Raleigh, as I suppose her name is, you must get all
these things. You must begin to learn to read and write, and talk
properly. I shall come here again in a month's time--I shall come every
month now--and if you haven't got some shoes for your feet, and a cap for
your head, before I see you again, I shall just take the little girl away
down into the country, where I live, and you'll never see her again. Do
you understand?"

"Yes," answered Tony, nodding his head.

"Then you may take yourself away now," said the sharp old woman, "I don't
want to be too hard upon you; but I've got this little girl to look after
for her mother, and you must do as I say, or I shall carry her right off
to be out of your way. Take your broom and go; and never you think of
such a thing as taking this little girl to sweep a crossing again. I
never heard of such a thing. There, go!"

Tony slunk away sadly, with a sudden down-heartedness. He returned so
joyous and triumphant, in spite of his weariness, that this unexpected
and unpleasant greeting had been a very severe shock to him. With his
broom over his shoulder, and with his listless, slouching steps, he
sauntered slowly back to his crossing; but he had no heart for it now.




CHAPTER XI.

AMONG THIEVES.


The night fell early, for a thick fog came on in the afternoon. Tony
cowered down upon his broom under the wall where Dolly had sat in the
sunshine all the morning to watch him sweep his crossing. It was all over
now. She was lost to him; for he should never dare to go back to old
Oliver's house, and face that terrible old woman again. There was nothing
for him but to return to his old life and his old haunts; and a chill ran
through him, body and spirit, as he thought of it. His heap of paper
shavings under the counter, where the biting winds could not reach him,
came to his mind, and the tears rushed to his eyes. But to-night, at
least, there would be no need to sleep out of doors, for he had some
money in the safest corner of his ragged pocket, tied up in it securely
with a bit of string. He could afford to pay for a night's lodging, and
he knew very well where he could get one.

About nine o'clock Tony turned his weary feet towards a slum he knew
of in Westminster, where there was a cellar open to everybody who could
pay two-pence for a night's shelter. His heart was very full and heavy
with resentment against his enemy, and a great longing to see Dolly. He
loitered about the door of the cellar, reluctant and almost afraid to
venture in; for it was so long since he had been driven to any of these
places that he felt nearly like a stranger among them. Besides, in former
times he had been kicked, and beaten, and driven from the fire, and
fought with by the bigger boys; and he had become unaccustomed to such
treatment of late. How different this lodging-house was to the quiet
peaceful home where Dolly knelt down every evening at her grandfather's
knee, and prayed for him; for now she always put Tony's name into her
childish prayers! He should never, never hear her again, nor see old
Oliver seated in his arm-chair, smoking his long pipe, while he talked
with that strange friend and master of his. Ah! he would never hear or
know any more of that unseen Christ, who was so willing to be his master
and friend, for the Lord Jesus Christ could never come into such a wicked
place as this, which was the only home he had. He had given him the
crossing and the broom, and that was the end of it. He must take care of
himself now, and keep out of gaol if he could, and if not, why then he
had better make a business of thieving, and become as good a pickpocket
as "Clever Dog Tom," who had once stolen a watch from a policeman
himself.

Clever Dog Tom was the first to greet Tony when he slipped in at last,
and he seemed inclined to make much of him; but Tony was too troubled
for receiving any consolation from Tom's friendly advances. He crept
away into the darkest corner, and stretched himself on the thin straw
which covered the damp and dirty floor, but he could not fall asleep.
There was a good deal of quarreling among the boys, and the men who
wished to sleep swore long and loudly at them. Then there followed a
fight, which grew so exciting at last that every person in the place,
except Tony, gathered about the boys in a ring, encouraging and cheering
them. It was long after midnight before silence and rest came, and then
he fell into a broken slumber, dreaming of Dolly and old Oliver, until
he awoke and found his face wet with tears. He got up before any of his
bed-fellows were aroused, and made his way out into the fresh keen air
of a December morning.

Day after day went by, and night after night Tony was growing more
indifferent again to the swearing and fighting of his old comrades. He
began to listen with delight to the tales of Clever Dog Tom, who told him
that hands like his would work well in his line, and his innocent-looking
face would go a long way towards softening any judge and jury, or would
bring him favour with the chaplain, and easy times in gaol. He kept his
crossing still, and did tolerably well, earning enough to keep himself in
food, and to pay for his night's shelter; but he was beginning to hanker
after something more. If he could not be good, and be on the same side as
old Oliver and Dolly, he thought it would be better to be altogether on
the other side, like Tom, who dressed well, and lived well, and was
looked up to by other boys. It was a week after he had left old Oliver's
house, and he was about to leave his crossing for the night, when a
gentleman stopped him suddenly, and looked keenly into his face.

"Hollo, my lad!" he said, "you're the boy I gave fourpence to a week
ago for holding my horse. I told you to lay it out well. What did you
do with it?"

"Me and Dolly bought this broom," he answered, "and I've kept this
crossing ever since."

"Well done!" said the gentleman. "And who is Dolly?"

"It's a little girl as I was very fond of," replied Tony, with a deep
sigh. It seemed so long ago that he spoke of his love for her as if it
was a thing altogether passed away and dead, yet his heart still ached at
the memory of it.

"Well, here's another fourpenny-bit for you," said his friend, "quite a
new one. See how bright it is; no one has ever bought anything with it
yet. Dolly will like to see it."

Tony held it in the palm of his hand long after the gentleman was out of
sight, gazing at it in the lamplight. It was very beautiful and shining;
and oh! how Dolly's eyes would shine and sparkle if she could only see
it! And she ought to see it. By right it belonged to her; for had he not
given her his first fourpenny-piece freely, and had twenty kisses for it,
and then had she not given it him back to buy a broom with? she had never
had a single farthing of all his earnings. How he would like to show her
this beautiful piece of silver, and feel her soft little arms round his
neck, when he said it was to be her very own! He felt that he dare not
pass the night in the cellar with such a treasure about him, for Tom, who
was so clever, would be sure to find out that his pocket was worth the
picking, and Tony had not found that there was much honour among thieves.
What was he to do? Where was he to go?




CHAPTER XII.

TONY'S WELCOME.


Almost without knowing where his feet were carrying him, Tony sauntered
through the streets until he found himself at the turn into the alley
within a few yards of Oliver's home, and his beloved Dolly. At any rate
he could pass down it, and, if the shop-door was not shut, he would wrap
his beautiful silver coin in a rag, and throw it into the inside; they
would be sure to guess who had done it, and what it was for. It was dark
down the alley, only one lamp and the greengrocer's gas lighting it up,
and Tony stole along quietly in the shadow. It was nearly time for Dolly
to be going to bed, he thought, and old Oliver was sure to be with her in
the inner room; but just as he came into the revealing glare of the
greengrocer's stall, his ears rang and his heart throbbed violently at
the sound of a shrill little scream of gladness, and the next moment he
felt himself caught by Dolly's arms, and dragged into the house by them.

"Tony's come home, Tony's come home, gan-pa!" she shouted with all her
might. "Dolly's found Tony at last!"

Dolly's voice quivered, and broke down into quick, childish sobs, while
she held Tony very fast, lest he should escape from her once again; and
old Oliver came quickly from the room beyond, and laid his hand fondly
upon the boy's shoulder.

"Why have you kept away from us so long, Tony?" he asked.

"Oh, master!" he cried, "I've been a wicked boy, and a miserable boy. Do
forgive me, and I'll never do so no more. I s'pose you'll never let me
sleep under the counter again?"

"Come in, come in!" answered Oliver, pushing him gently before him into
the house. "We've been waiting and watching for you every night, me and
my little love. You ought not to have served us so, my lad; but we're too
glad to be angry with you. Charlotte's sharp, and she's very much afraid
of low ways and manners; but she isn't a hard woman, and she didn't know
anything about you. When I told her as you'd been left no bigger than my
little love here to take care of yourself, alone, in London,--mother
dead, and no father,--she shed tears about you, she did. And she left you
the biggest of her eggs to be kept for your supper, with her kind love;
and we've put it by for you. You shall have it this very night. Dolly, my
love, bring me the little saucepan."

"I'm not so clean as I could wish," said Tony, mournfully; for he had
neglected himself during the last week, and looked very much like what he
had done when he had first seen old Oliver and his little grand-daughter.

"Take a bowl full of water into the shop, then," answered Oliver, "and
wash yourself, while I boil the egg. Dolly'll find you a bit of soap and
a towel; she's learning to be grand-pa's little housekeeper, she is."

When Tony returned to the kitchen he looked a different being; the gloom
was gone as well as the grime. He felt as if he had come to himself after
a long and very miserable dream. Here was old Oliver again, looking at
him with a kindly light in his dim eyes, and Dolly dancing about, with
her pretty merry little ways; and Beppo wagging his tail in joyous
welcome, as he sniffed round and round him. Even the egg was a token of
forgiveness and friendliness. That terrible old woman was not his enemy,
after all. He recollected what she had said he must do, and he resolved
to do it for Dolly's sake, and old Oliver's. He would learn to read and
write, and he would pinch himself hard to buy some better clothing, lest
he should continue to be a disgrace to them; shoes he must have first of
all, as those were what the sharp but friendly old woman had particularly
mentioned. At any rate, he could never run away again from this home,
where he was so loved and cared for.

Oliver told him how sadly Dolly had fretted after him, and watched for
him at the door, hour after hour, to see him come home again. He said
that in the same way, only with a far greater longing and love, his
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, was waiting for Tony to go to him. He
could not half understand it, but a vague feeling of a love passing all
understanding sank deeply into his heart. He fell asleep that night under
the counter with the tranquil peacefulness of one who has been tossed
about in a great storm and tempest, and has been brought safely to the
desired haven.




CHAPTER XIII.

NEW BOOTS.


It was several weeks before Tony could scrape together enough money for
his new boots, though he pinched and starved himself with heroic courage
and endurance. He did not mean to buy them at a shop; for he knew a place
in Whitechapel where boots quite good enough for him were to be had for
two or three shillings. He was neither ambitious nor fastidious; old
boots patched up would do very well to start with, if he could only
manage to get them before aunt Charlotte came up to town again. She had
sent word she was coming the last Saturday in January; and early in the
afternoon of that day, before the train could come in from Stratford,
Tony started off to the place where he intended to make his purchase.

It was a small open space in one of the streets of Whitechapel, where
there was an area of flags, lying off the pavement. Several traders held
possession of this square, sitting on low stools, or cross-legged on the
ground, with their stock in trade around them. One dealer bought and sold
all kinds of old and rusty pieces of iron; another, a woman, ill clad and
with red eyes, displayed before her a dingy assortment of ragged clothes,
which were cheapened by other spare and red-eyed women, who held almost
naked children by the hand. It was cold, and a bitter, keen east wind was
searching every corner of London streets. The salesman Tony was come to
deal with had a tolerable selection of old boots, very few of them pairs,
some with pretty good upper-leathers, but with no soles worth speaking
of; and others thickly cobbled and patched, but good enough to keep the
feet dry, without presenting a very creditable appearance. For the first
time in his life Tony found out the perplexity of having a choice to
make. There were none which exactly fitted him; but a good fit is a
luxury for richer folks than Tony, and he was not troubled about it. His
chief anxiety was to look well in the eyes of Dolly's aunt, who might
possibly let him see her on her way back to the station, if she approved
of him; and who would not now be obliged to carry Dolly off with her, to
be out of the way of his naked feet.

He fixed upon a pair at last, urged and coaxed to them by the dealer.
They were a good deal too large, and his feet slipped about in them
uncomfortably; but the man assured him that was how everybody, even
gentlefolks, bought them, to leave room for growing. There was an
awkward, uneven patch under one of the soles, and the other heel was worn
down at the side; but at least they covered his feet well. He shambled
away in them slowly and toilsomely, hardly knowing how to lift one foot
after another, yet full of pride in his new possessions. It was a long
way home to old Oliver's alley, between Holborn and the Strand; but he
was in no hurry to arrive there before they had finished and cleared away
their tea; so he travelled painfully in that direction, stopping now and
then to regale himself at the attractive windows of tripe and cow-heel
shops. He watched the lamplighters kindling the lamps, and the
shopkeepers lighting up their gas; and then he heard the great solemn
clock of St. Paul's strike six. Tea would be quite over now, and Tony
turned down a narrow back street, which would prove a nearer way home
than the thronged thoroughfares, and set off to run as fast as he could
in his awkward and unaccustomed boots.

It was not long before he came to a sudden and sharp fall off the
kerb-stone, as he trod upon a bit of orange-peel, and slipped upon it. He
felt stunned for a few seconds, and sat still rubbing his forehead. These
back streets were very quiet, for the buildings were mostly offices and
warehouses, and most of them were already closed for the night. He lifted
himself up at length, and set his foot upon the flags; but a shrill cry
of pain broke from his lips, and rang loudly through the quiet street. He
fell back upon the pavement, quivering and trembling, with a chilly
moisture breaking out upon his skin. What hurt had been done to him? How
was it that he could not bear to walk? He took off his new boots, and
tried once more, but with no better success. He could not endure the
agony of standing or moving.

Yet he must move; he must get up and walk. If he did not go home, they
would think he had run away again, for fear of meeting Dolly's aunt. At
that thought he set off to crawl homewards upon his hands and knees, with
suppressed groans, as his foot trailed uselessly along the ground. Yet he
knew he could not advance very far in this manner. What if he should have
to lie all night upon the hard paving-stones! for he could not remember
ever having seen a policeman in these back streets; and there did not
seem to be anybody else likely to pass that way. It was freezing fast,
now the sun was gone down, and his hands scraped up the frosty mud as he
dragged himself along. If he stayed out all night, he must die of cold
and pain before morning.

But if that was true which old Oliver said so often, that the Lord Jesus
Christ loved him, and that he was always with those whom he loved, then
he was not alone and helpless even here, in the deserted street, with the
ice and darkness of a winter's night about him. Oh! if he could but feel
the hand of Christ touching him, or hear the lowest whisper of his voice,
or catch the dimmest sight of his face! Perhaps it was he who was helping
him to crawl towards the stir and light of a more frequented street,
which he could see afar off, though the pain he felt made him giddy and
sick. It became too much for him at last, however, and he drew himself
into the shelter of a warehouse door, and crouched down in a corner,
crying, with clasped hands, and sobbing voice, "Oh! Lord Jesus Christ!
Lord Jesus Christ!"

After uttering this cry Tony lay there for some minutes, his eyes growing
glazed and his ears dull, when a footstep came briskly up the street, and
some one, whom he could not now see for the strange dimness of his
sight, stopped opposite to him, and then stooped to touch him on the arm.

"Why," said a voice he seemed to know, "you're my young friend of the
crossing,--my little fourpenny-bit, I call you. What brings you sitting
here this cold night?"

"I've fell down and hurt myself," answered Tony, faintly.

"Where?" asked the stranger.

"My leg," he answered.

The gentleman stooped down yet lower, and passed his hand gently along
Tony's leg till he came to the place where his touch gave him the most
acute pain.

"Broken!" he said to himself. "My boy, where's your home?"

"I haven't got any right home," answered Tony, more faintly than before.
He felt a strange numbness creeping over him, and his lips were too
parched and his tongue too heavy for speaking. The gentleman took off his
own great-coat and wrapped it well about him, placing him at the same
time in a more comfortable position. Then he ran quickly to the nearest
street, hailed the first cab, and drove back to where Tony was lying.

[Illustration: TONY'S ACCIDENT.]




CHAPTER XIV.

IN HOSPITAL.


The pain Tony was suffering kept him partially conscious of what was
happening to him. He knew that he was carried gently into a large hall,
and that two or three persons came to look at him, to whom his new friend
spoke in eager and rapid tones.

"I know you do not take in accidents," he said; "but what could I do
with the little fellow? He told me he had no home, and that was all he
could say. You have two or three cots empty; and I'll double my
subscription if it's necessary, rather than take him away. Come, doctor,
you'll admit my patient?"

"I don't think I could send him away, Mr. Ross," answered another hearty
voice. "We must get him into bed as soon as possible."

Tony felt himself carried up stairs into a large room, where there were a
number of small beds, with a pale little face lying on every pillow.
There was a vacant cot at the end, and he was laid upon it, after having
his tattered clothes taken off him. His new boots were gone altogether,
having been left behind on the steps of the warehouse. His hands and
knees, bruised with crawling along the frosty stones, were gently bathed
with a soft sponge and warm water. He was surrounded by kind faces,
looking pitifully down upon him, and the gentleman who had brought him
there spoke to him in a very pleasant and cheering voice.

"My boy," he said, "you have broken your leg in your fall; but the doctor
here, who is a great friend of mine, is going to mend it for you. It will
give you a good deal of pain for a few minutes; but you'll bear it like a
man, I know."

"Yes," murmured Tony; "but will you let me go as soon as it's done?"

"You could not do that," answered Mr. Ross, smiling. "It will be some
weeks before you will be well enough to go; but you will be very happy
here, I promise you."

"Oh! but I must go!" cried Tony, starting up, but falling back again with
a groan. "There's Dolly and Mr. Oliver,--they'll think I've run away
again, and I were trying all I could to get back to 'em. She'll be
watching for me, and she'll fret ever so. Oh! Dolly, Dolly!"

He spoke in a tone of so much grief, that the smile quite passed away
from the face of Mr. Ross, and he laid his hand upon his, and answered
him very earnestly:

"If you will tell me where they live," he said, "I will go at once and
let them know all about your accident; and they shall come to see you
to-morrow if you are well enough to see them."

Tony gave him very minute and urgent directions where to find old
Oliver's shop; and then he resigned himself, with the patience and
fortitude of most of the little sufferers in that hospital, to the
necessary pain he had to bear.

It was Sunday afternoon when old Oliver and Dolly entered the hall of the
Children's Hospital and inquired for Tony. There was something about the
old man's look of age and the little child's sweet face which found them
favour, even in a place where everybody was received with kindness. A
nurse, who met them slowly climbing the broad staircase, turned back with
them, taking Dolly's hand in hers, and led them up to the room where
they would find Tony. There were many windows in it, and the sunshine,
which never shone into their own home, was lighting it up gaily. The cots
were all covered with white counterpanes, and most of the little
patients, who had been asleep the night before, were now awake, and
sitting up in bed, with little tables before them, which they could slide
up and down as they wished along the sides of their cots. There was no
sign of medicine, and nothing painful to see, except the wan faces of the
children themselves. But Oliver and Dolly had no eyes but for Tony, and
they hurried on to the corner where he was lying. His face was very
white, and his eyelids were closed, and his lips drawn in as if he were
still in pain. But at the very gentle and almost frightened touch of
Dolly's fingers his eyes opened quickly, and then how his face changed!
It looked as if all the sunshine in the room had centred upon it, and his
voice shook with gladness.

"Dolly hasn't had to fret for Tony this time," he said.

"But Dolly will fret till Tony gets well again," she answered, clasping
both her small hands round his.

"No, no!" said old Oliver; "Dolly's going to be a very good girl, and
help grand-pa to mind shop till Tony comes home again."

This promise of promotion partly satisfied Dolly, and she sat still upon
Oliver's knee beside Tony's cot, where his eyes could rest with
contentment and pleasure upon them both, though the nurse would not let
them talk much. When they went away she took them through the girls'
wards in the story below; for the girls were more sumptuously lodged than
the boys. These rooms were very lofty, with windows reaching to the
cornice of the ceiling, and with grand marble chimney-pieces about the
fireplaces; for in former times, the nurse told them, this had been a
gentleman's mansion, where gay parties and assemblies had been held; but
never had there been such a party and assembly as the one now in it.

Old Oliver walked down between the rows of cots, with his little love
clinging shyly to his hand, smiling tenderly upon each poor little face
turned to look at them. Some of the children smiled back to him, and
nodded cheerfully to Dolly, lifting up their dolls for her to see, and
calling to her to listen to the pretty tunes their musical boxes were
playing. But others lay quietly upon their pillows half asleep, with
beautiful pictures hanging over their feeble heads,--pictures of Christ
carrying a lamb in his arms; and again, of Christ with a little child
upon his knee; and again, of Christ holding the hand of the young girl
who seemed dead, but whose ear heard his voice saying "Arise!" and she
came to life again in her father's and mother's house. The tears stood in
old Oliver's eyes, and his white head trembled a great deal before he had
seen all, and given one of his tender glances to each child.

"I wonder whatever the Lord 'ud have said," he exclaimed, "if there'd
been such a place as this in his days! He'd have come here very often. He
does come, I know, and walks to and fro here of nights when the little
ones are asleep, or may be awake through pain, and he blesses every one
of them. Ah, bless them! Bless the little children, and the good folks
who keep a place like this. Bless them everyone!"

He felt reluctant to go away; but his time was gone, and the nurse was
needed elsewhere. She kissed Dolly before she went, putting a biscuit in
her hand, and told Oliver the house was open every Sunday afternoon for
the friends of the children, if he chose to come again; and then they
walked home with slow, short footsteps, and all the Sunday evening they
talked together of the beautiful place they had seen, and how happy Tony
would be in the Children's Hospital.




CHAPTER XV.

TONY'S FUTURE PROSPECTS.


Old Oliver and Dolly made several visits to Tony while he was in the
hospital. Every Sunday afternoon they went back to it, until its great
door, and wide staircase, and sunny ward, became almost as familiar to
them as their own dull little house. Tony recovered quickly, yet he was
there some weeks before the doctor pronounced him strong enough to turn
out again to rough it in the world. As he grew better he learned a number
of things which were making him a wiser, as well as a stronger boy,
before the time came for him to leave.

The day before he was to go out of hospital, his friend, Mr. Ross, who
had been often to see him, called for the last time, and found him in the
room where the little patients who were nearly well were at play
together. Some of them were making believe to have a feast, with a small
dinner-service of wooden plates and dishes, and a few bits of
orange-peel, and biscuits; but Tony was sitting quietly and gravely on
one side, looking on from a distance. He had never learned to play.

"Antony," said Mr. Ross--he was the only person who ever called him
Antony, and it seemed to make more of a man of him--"what are you
thinking to do when you leave here to-morrow?"

"I s'pose I must go back to my crossing," answered Tony, looking
very grave.

"No, I think I can do better for you than that," said his friend, "I
have a sister living out in the country, about fifty miles from London;
and she wants a boy to help the gardener, and run on errands for the
house. She has promised to provide you with a home, and clothing, and to
send you to school for two years, till you are about twelve, for we
think you must be about ten years old now; and after that you shall have
settled wages."

Tony listened with a quick throbbing of his heart and a contraction in
his throat, which hindered him from speaking all at once when Mr. Ross
had finished. What a grand thing it would be for himself! But then there
were old Oliver and Dolly to be remembered.

"It 'ud do first-rate for me," he said at last, "and I'd try my best to
help in the garden; but I couldn't never leave Mr. Oliver and the little
girl. She'd fret ever so; and he's gone so forgetful he'd lose his own
head, if he could anyhow. Why! of a morning they sell him any papers as
they've too many of. Sometimes it's all the 'Star,' and sometimes it's
all the 'Standard;' and them as buys one won't have the other. I don't
know why, I'm sure. But you see when I go for 'em I say twenty-five this,
and thirteen that, and I count 'em over pretty sharp, I can tell you;
though I couldn't read at all afore I came here, but I could tell which
was which easy enough. Then he'd never think to open his shop some
mornings; and other mornings he'd open at four or five o'clock, just when
he woke of hisself. No. I must stay and take care of 'em a bit; but thank
you, sir, all the same."

He had spoken so gravely and thoughtfully that his reasons went directly
to the heart of Mr. Ross; but he asked him one more question, before he
could let his good plan for the boy drop.

"What has he done for you, Antony? Is he any relation of yours?"

"No, no!" cried Tony, his eyes growing bright, "I haven't got any
relation in all the world; but he took me in out of love, and let me
sleep comfortable under the counter, instead of in the streets. I love
him, and Dolly, I do. I'll stay by 'em as long as ever I live, if I have
to sweep a crossing till I'm an old man like him. Besides, I hear him
speak a good word for me often and often to his Master; and I s'pose
nobody else 'ud do that."

"What master?" inquired Mr. Ross.

"Him," answered Tony, pointing to a picture of the Saviour blessing young
children, "he's always talking to him as if he could see him, and he
tells him everythink. No, it 'ud be better for me to stay with him and
Dolly, and keep hard by my crossing, than go away from 'em, and have
clothes, and lodging, and schooling for nothink."

"I think it would," said Mr. Ross, "so you must go on as you are, Antony,
till I can find you something better than a crossing. You are looking
very well, my boy; that's a nice, warm suit of clothes you have on,
better than the rags you came in by a long way."

It was a sailor's suit, sent to the hospital by some mother, whose boy
had perhaps outgrown it; or, it may be, whose boy had been taken away
from all her tender care for him. It was of good, rough, thick blue
cloth, and fitted Tony well. He had grown a good deal during his
illness, and his face had become whiter and more refined; his hair, too,
was cut to a proper length, and parted down the side, no longer lying
about his head in a tangled mass. He coloured up with pleasure as Mr.
Ross looked approvingly at him.

"They've lent it me till I go out," he said, with a tone slightly
regretful in his voice, "I only wish Dolly could have seen me in it, and
her aunt Charlotte. My own things were too ragged for me to wear 'em in a
place like this."

"They've given it to you, Antony," replied Mr. Ross, "those are the
clothes you will go home in to-morrow."

It seemed too much for Tony to believe, though a nurse who was sitting by
and sewing away busily, told him it was quite true. He was intensely
happy all the rest of the day, often standing up, and almost straining
his neck to get a satisfactory view of his own back, and stroking the nap
of his blue trousers with a fondling touch. They would all see him in it;
old Oliver, Dolly, and aunt Charlotte. There would be no question now as
to his fitness for taking Dolly out for a walk; he would be dressed well
enough to attend upon a princess. This made famous amends for the pair
of old boots he had lost the night he broke his leg; a loss he had often
silently lamented over in his own mind. The nurse told him she was
patching up his old clothes, and making him a cap, to wear when he was at
work on his crossing, for the new ones were much too good for that; and
Tony felt as rich as if a large fortune had been left to him.

It was a very joyful thing to go home again. Dolly was a little shy at
first of this new Tony, so different from the poor, ragged, wild-looking
old Tony; but a very short time was enough to make her familiar with his
nice blue suit, and the anchor-buttons upon it. He found his place under
the counter all nicely papered to keep the draughts out; and a little
chaff mattress, made by aunt Charlotte, laid down instead of the shavings
upon the floor. It was even pleasanter to be here than in the hospital.

But Tony found it hard work to go back to his crossing in the morning;
and he could not make out what was the matter with himself, he felt so
cross and idle. His old clothes seemed really such horrid rags that he
could scarcely bear to feel them about him; and if any passer-by looked
closely at him, he went red and hot all over. He was not so successful
as he thought he had been before his accident, or as he thought he ought
to be; for the roads were getting cleaner with the drier weather, and few
persons considered it necessary to give him a copper for his almost
needless labour. Worst of all,--Clever Dog Tom found him out, and would
come often to see him; sometimes jeering him for his poor spirit in being
content with such low work, and sometimes boasting of the fine things he
could do, and displaying the fine clothes he could wear. It was truly
very hard work for Tony, after his long holiday at the hospital, where he
had had as much luxury and attention as a rich man's son.

But at home in the evening Tony felt all right again. Old Oliver set him
to learn to read and write, and he was making rapid progress, more rapid
than Dolly, who began at the same time, but who was apt to look upon it
all as only another kind of game, of which she grew more quickly tired
than of hide-and-seek. There was no one to check her, or to make her
understand it was real, serious work: neither old Oliver nor Tony could
find any fault with their darling. Now and then there came letters from
her mother, full of anxious questions about her, and loving messages to
her, telling her to be a good girl till she came back, but never saying
a word as to when there was any chance of her returning to England. In
one of these letters she sent word that a little sister was come for her
out in India, who was just like what Dolly herself had been when she was
a baby; but neither Oliver nor Tony could quite believe that. There never
had been such a child as Dolly; there never would be again.




CHAPTER XVI

A BUD FADING.


A second summer went by with its long, hot days, when the sun seemed to
stand still in the sky, and to dart down its most sultry beams into the
dustiest and closest streets. Out in the parks, and in the broad
thoroughfares where the fresh breeze could sweep along early in the
morning, and in the evening as soon as the air grew cooler, it was very
pleasant weather; and the people who could put on light summer dresses
enjoyed it very much. But away among the thickly-built and crowded
houses, where there were thousands of persons breathing over and over
again the same hot and stagnant atmosphere, it seemed as if the most
delicate and weakly among them must be suffocated by the breathless heat.
Old Oliver suffered very greatly, but he said nothing about it; indeed he
generally forgot the cause of his languor and feebleness. He never knew
now the day of the week, nor the month of the year. If any one had told
him in the dog-days of July that it was still April, he would only have
answered gently that it was bright, warm weather for the time of year.

But about old times his memory was good enough; he could tell long
stories of his boyhood, and describe the hills of his native place in
such a manner as to set Tony full of longings after the country, with its
cornfields, and meadows, and hedge-rows, which he had never seen. He
remembered his Bible, too, and could repeat chapter after chapter
describing his Master's life, as they sat together in the perpetual
twilight of their room; for now that it was summer-time it did not seem
right to keep the gas burning.

Tony's crossing had failed him altogether, for in dry weather nobody
wanted it; but in this extremity Mr. Ross came to his aid, and procured
him a place as errand-boy, where he was wanted from eight o'clock in the
morning till seven at night; so that he could still open old Oliver's
shop, and fetch him his right papers before he went out, and put the
shutters up when he came back. To become an errand-boy was a good step
forwards, and Tony was more than content. He never ran about bare-headed
and barefooted now as he had done twelve months before; and he had made
such good progress in reading and writing that he could already make out
the directions upon the parcels he had to deliver, after they had been
once read over to him. He did not object to the dry weather and clean
streets as he had done when his living depended upon his crossing; on the
contrary, he enjoyed the sunshine, and the crowds of gaily-dressed
people, for he could hold up his head amongst them, and no longer went
prowling about in the gutters searching after bits of orange-peel. He
kicked them into the gutters instead, mindful of that accident which had
befallen him, but which turned out so full of good for him.

[Illustration: DOLLY'S MONTHLY REGISTER.]

But, if there had been any eye to see it, a very slow, and very sad
change was creeping over Dolly; so slowly indeed, that perhaps none but
her mother's eye could have seen it at first. On the first of every
month, which old Oliver knew by the magazines coming in, he marked how
much his little love had grown by placing her against the side-post of
the door, and making a thick pencil line where her curly head reached to.
He looked at this record often, smiling at the rate his little woman was
growing taller; but it was really no wonder that his dim eyes, loving as
they were, never saw how the rosy colour was dying away out of her
cheeks, as gradually as the red glow fades away in the west after the sun
has set, nor how the light grew fainter and fainter in her blue eyes,
until they looked at him very heavily from under her drooping eyelids.
The house was too dark for any sight to see very clearly; the full,
strong, healthy light of the sun, could not find its way into it, and day
after day Dolly became more like one of those plants growing in shady
places, which live and shoot up, but only put out pale and sickly leaves,
and feeble buds. One by one, and by little and little, with degrees as
small as her own tiny footsteps, she lost all her merry ways, dropping
them, here one and there another, upon the path she was silently
treading; as little children let fall the flowers they have gathered in
the meadows, along their road homewards. Yet all the time old Oliver was
loving and cherishing her as the dearest of all treasures, second only to
the Master whom he loved so fully; but he never discovered that there
was any change in her. Dolly fell into very quiet ways, and would sit
still for hours together, her arm around Beppo, and her sweet, patient
little face, which was growing thin and hollow, turned towards the
flickering light of the fire, while Oliver pottered toilsomely about his
house, forgetting many things, but always ready with a smile and a fond
word for his grand-daughter.

Just as Oliver was too old to feel any anxiety about Dolly, so Tony was
too young, and knew too little of sickness and death. Moreover, when he
came home in the evening, full of the business of the day, with a number
of stories to tell of what had happened to him, and what he had seen,
Dolly was always more lively, and had a feverish colour on her face, and
a brilliant light in her eyes. He seemed to bring life and strength with
him, and she liked him to nurse her on his knee, which did not grow tired
and stiff like her grandfather's. How should Tony detect anything amiss
with her? She never complained of feeling any pain, and he was glad for
her to be very quiet and still while he was busy with his lessons.

But when the summer was ended, and after the damp warm fogs of November
were over, and a keen, black frost set in sharply before Christmas--a
frost which had none of the beauty of white lime and clear blue skies,
but which hung over the city like a pall, and penetrated to every
fireside with an icy breath; when only the strong and the healthy, who
were well clothed and well fed, could meet it bravely, while the
delicate, and sickly, and poverty-stricken, shrank before it, and were
chilled through and through, then Dolly drooped and failed altogether.
Even old Oliver's dull ears began to hear a little cough, which seemed to
echo from some grave not very far away; and when he drew his little love
between his knees, and put on his spectacles to gaze into her face, the
dearest face in all the world to him, even his eyes saw something of its
wanness, and the hollow lines which had come upon it since the summer had
passed away. The old man felt troubled about her, yet he scarcely knew
what to do. He bought sweetmeats to soothe her cough, and thought
sometimes that he must ask somebody or other about a doctor for her; but
his treacherous memory always let the thought slip out of his mind. He
intended to take counsel with his sister when she came to see him; but
aunt Charlotte was herself very ill with an attack of rheumatism, and
could not get up to old Oliver's house.




CHAPTER XVII.

A VERY DARK SHADOW.


The Christmas week passed by, and the new year came in, cold and bleak,
but Tony was well secured against the weather, and liked the frosty air,
which made it pleasant to run as fast as he could from place to place as
he delivered his parcels. When boxing day came, which was half-holiday
for him, he returned to the house at mid-day, carrying with him three
mince-pies, which he had felt himself rich enough to buy in honour of the
holiday. He had for a long time been reckoning upon shutting up shop for
the whole afternoon, and upon going out for a long stroll through the
streets with old Oliver and Dolly; and now that the hour was positively
come he felt very light-hearted and full of spirits, defying the wind
which wrestled with him at every turn. Dolly must be wrapped up well, he
said to himself, and old Oliver must put on his drab great coat, with
mother o' pearl buttons, which he had brought up from the country forty
years ago, and which was still good for keeping out the cold. He ran
down the alley, and passed through the shop whistling cheerily, and
disdaining to lift the flap of the counter, he took a running vault over
it, and landed at once inside the open kitchen-door.

But there was old Oliver sitting close to the fire, with Dolly on his
knee, and her little head lying upon his breast, while the tears trickled
slowly down his furrowed cheeks on to her pretty curls. Beppo was
standing between his legs, licking Dolly's small hand, which hung
languidly by her side. Her eyelids were closed, and her face was deadly
white; but when Tony uttered a great cry of trouble, and fell on his
knees before her, she opened her heavy eyes, and stretched out her cold
thin hand to stroke his cheeks. "Dolly's so very ill, Tony," she
murmured, "poor Dolly's very ill indeed."

"I don't know whatever is the matter with my little love," said the old
man, in a low and trembling voice; "she fell down all of a sudden, and I
thought she was dead, Tony; but she's coming round again now. Isn't my
little love better now?"

"Yes, gan-pa, yes; Dolly's better," she answered faintly.

"Let me hold her, master," said Tony, his heart beating fast; "I can
hold her stronger and more comfortable, maybe, than you. You're tired
ever so, and you'd better get yourself a bit of dinner. Shall Tony nurse
you now, Dolly?"

The little girl raised her arms to him, and Tony took her gently into his
own, sitting down upon the old box in the chimney-corner, and putting her
to nestle comfortably against him. Dolly closed her eyes again, and
by-and-bye he knew that she had fallen into a light sleep, while old
Oliver moved noiselessly to and fro, only now and then saying half aloud,
in a tone of strange earnestness and entreaty, "Lord! dear Lord!"

After awhile the old man came and bent over them both, taking Dolly's arm
softly between his withered fingers, and looking down at it with a
shaking head.

"She's very thin, Tony; look at this little arm," he said, "wasting away!
wasting away! I've watched all my little ones waste away except my poor
Susan. Couldn't there anything be done to save her?"

"Ay!" answered Tony, in an energetic whisper, while he clasped Dolly a
little tighter in his arms; "ay! they could cure her easily at the
hospital. Bless yer! there were little 'uns ten times worse than her as
they sent home cured. Let us take her there as soon as ever she wakes
up, and she'll be quite well directly, I promise you. The doctor knows
me, and I'll speak to Mr. Ross for her. Do you get a bit of dinner, and
hearten yourself up for it; and we'll set off as soon as she's awake."

Old Oliver turned away comforted, and prepared his own and Tony's dinner,
and put a mince-pie into the oven to be ready to tempt Dolly's appetite
when she awoke. But she slept heavily all the afternoon till it was
almost dark outside, and the lamps were being lit, when she awoke,
restless and feverish.

"Would Dolly like to go to that nice place, where the little girls had
the dolls and the music?" asked Tony, in a quavering voice which he could
scarcely keep from sobs; "the good place where Tony got well again, and
they gave him his new clothes? Everybody 'ud be so wery kind to poor
little Dolly, and she'd come home again, quite cured and strong, like
Tony was."

"Yes, yes!" cried Dolly, eagerly, raising herself up in his arms; "it's a
nice place, and the sun shines, and Dolly 'ud like to go. Only she'll be
sure to come back to gan-pa."

It was some time yet before they were quite ready to start, though Dolly
could not be coaxed to eat the hot mince-pie, or anything else. Old
Oliver had to get himself into his drab overcoat, and the ailing child
had to be protected in the best way they could against the searching
wind. After they had put on all her own warmest clothing, Tony wrapped
his own thick blue jacket about her, and lifting her very tenderly in his
arms, they turned out into the streets, closely followed by Beppo.

It was now quite night, but the streets were well lighted from the shop
windows, and throngs of people were hurrying hither and thither; for it
was boxing-night, and all the lower classes of the inhabitants were
taking holiday. But old Oliver saw and heard nothing of the crowd. He
walked on by Tony's side; with feeble and tottering steps, deaf and
blind, but whispering all the while, with trembling lips, to One whom no
one else could see or hear. Once or twice Tony saw a solemn smile flit
across his face, and he nodded his head and raised his hand, as one who
gives his assent to what is said to him. So they passed on through the
noisy streets till they reached quieter ones, were there were neither
shops nor many passers-by, and there they found the home where they were
going to leave their treasure for a time.




CHAPTER XVIII.

NO ROOM FOR DOLLY.


Old Oliver rang the house-bell very quietly, for Dolly seemed to be
asleep again, and lay quite still in Tony's arms, which were growing
stiff, and benumbed by the cold. The door was opened by a porter, whose
face was strange to them both, for he had only come in for the day while
the usual one took holiday. Old Oliver presented himself in front, and
pointed at his little grandchild as Tony held her in his arms while he
spoke to the porter in a voice which trembled greatly.

"We've brought you our little girl, who is very ill," he said, "but
she'll soon get well in here, I know. I'd like to see the doctor, and
tell him all about her."

"We're quite full," answered the porter, filling up the doorway.

"Full?" repeated old Oliver, in a tone of questioning.

"Ay! all our cots are full," he replied, "chockfull. There ain't no more
room. We've turned two or three away this morning, when they came at the
right time. This isn't the right time to bring any child here."

"But my little love is very ill," continued old Oliver; "this is the
right place, isn't it? The place where they nurse little children
who are ill?"

"It's all right," said the porter, "it's the right place enough, only
it's brimful, and running over, as you may say. We couldn't take in one
more, if it was ever so. But you may come in and sit down in the hall for
a minute or two, while I fetch one of the ladies."

Old Oliver and Tony entered, and sat down upon a bench inside. There was
the broad staircase, with its shallow steps, which Dolly's tiny feet had
climbed so easily, and it led up to the warm, pleasant nurseries, where
little children were already falling asleep, almost painlessly, in their
cosy cots. Tony could not believe that there was not room for their
darling, who had been so willing to come to the place she knew so well,
yet a sob broke from his lips, which disturbed Dolly in her sleep, for
she moaned once or twice, and stirred uneasily in his arms. The old man
leaned his hands upon the top of his stick, and rested his white head
upon them, until they heard light footsteps, and the rustling of a
dress, and they saw a lady coming down stairs to them.

"I think there's some mistake here, ma'am," said Oliver, his eye
wandering absently about the large entrance-hall; "this is the Hospital
for Sick Children, I think, and I've brought my little grandchild here,
who is very ill indeed, yet the man at the door says there's no room for
her. I think it must be a mistake."

"No," said the lady; "I am sorry to say it is no mistake. We are quite
full; there is not room for even one more. Indeed, we have been obliged
to send cases away before to-day. Who is your recommendation from?"

"I didn't know you'd want any recommendation," answered old Oliver, very
mournfully; "she's very ill, and you could cure her here, and take
better care of her than Tony and me, and I thought that was enough. I
never thought of getting any recommendation, and I don't know where I
could get one."

"Mr. Ross 'ud give us one," said Tony, eagerly.

"Yet even then," answered the lady, "we could not take her in until some
of the cots are empty."

"You don't know me," interrupted Tony, eagerly; "but Mr. Ross brought
me here, a year ago now, and they cured me, and set me up stronger
than ever. They was so wery kind to me, that I couldn't think of
anythink else save bringing our little girl to 'em. I'm sure they'd
take her in, if they only knew it was her. You jest say as it's Tony
and Dolly, as everybody took such notice of, and they'll never turn her
away, I'm sure."

"I wish we could take her," said the lady, with tears in her eyes; "but
it is impossible. We should be obliged to turn some other child out, and
that could not be done to-night. You had better bring her again in the
morning, and we'll see if there is any one well enough to make room for
her. Let me look at the poor child for a minute."

She lifted up the collar of Tony's blue jacket, which covered Dolly's
face, and looked down at it pitifully. It was quite white now, and was
pinched and hollow, with large blue eyes shining too brightly. She
stretched out her arms to the lady, and made a great effort to smile.

"Put Dolly into a pretty bed," she murmured, "where the sun shines, and
she'll soon get well and go home again to gan-pa."

"What can I do?" cried the lady, the tears now running down her face.
"The place is quite full; we cannot take in one more, not one. Bring her
here again in the morning, and we will see what can be done."

"How many children have you got here?" asked old Oliver.

"We have only seventy-five cots," she answered, sobbing; "and in a winter
like this they're always full."

"Only seventy-five!" repeated the old man, very sorrowfully. "Only
seventy-five, and there are hundreds and hundreds of little children ill
in London! They are ill in houses like mine, where the sun never shines.
Is there no other place like this we could take our little love to?"

"There are two or three other Hospitals," she answered, "but they are a
long way off, and none of them as large as ours. They are sure to be full
just now. I think there are not more than a hundred and fifty cots in all
London for sick children."

"Then there's no room for my Dolly?" he said.

The lady shook her head without speaking, for she had her handkerchief up
to her face.

"Eh!" cried old Oliver in a wailing voice, "I don't know whatever the
dear Lord 'ill say to that."

He made a sign to Tony that they must be going home again; and the boy
raised himself up with a strange weight and burden upon his heart. Old
Oliver put his stick down, and took Dolly into his own arms, and laid her
head down on his breast.

"Let me carry her a little way, Tony," he said. "She's as light as a
feather, even to poor old grandpa. I'd like to carry my little love a bit
of the way home."

"I'll tell you what I can do," said the lady, wrapping Dolly up and
kissing her before she covered her pale face, "if you will tell me where
you live I will speak to the doctor as soon as he comes in--for he is out
just now--and perhaps he will come to see her. He knows a great deal
about children, and is fond of them."

"Thank you, thank you kindly, ma'am," answered old Oliver, feeling a
little comforted. But when they stood outside, and the bleak wind blew
about them, and he could see the soft glimmer of the light in the
windows, within which other children were safely sheltered and
carefully tended, his spirit sank again. He tottered now and then under
his light burden; but he could not be persuaded to give up his little
child to Tony again. These streets were quiet, with handsome houses on
each side, and from one and another there came bursts of music and
laughter as they passed by; yet Tony could catch most of the words
which the old man was speaking.

[Illustration: NO ROOM FOR DOLLY]

"Dear Lord," he said, "there's only room for seventy-five of thy little
lambs that are pining and wasting away in every dark street and alley
like mine. Whatever can thy people be thinking about? They've got their
own dear little children, who are ill sometimes, spite of all their
care; and they can send for the doctor, and do all that's possible,
never looking at the money it costs; but when they are well again they
never think of the poor little ones who are sick and dying, with nobody
to help them or care for them as I care for this little one. Oh, Lord,
Lord! let my little love live! Yet thou knows what is best, and thou'lt
do what is best. Thou loves her more than I do; and see, Lord, she is
very ill indeed."

They reached home at last, after a weary and heartbroken journey, and
carried Dolly in and laid her upon old Oliver's bed. She was wide awake
now, and looked very peaceful, smiling quietly into both their faces as
they bent over her. Tony gazed deep down into her eyes, and met a glance
from them which sent a strange tremor through him. He crept silently
away, and stole into his dark bed under the counter, where he stretched
himself upon his face, and buried his mouth in the chaff pillow to choke
his sobs. What was going to happen to Dolly? What could it be that made
him afraid of looking again into her patient and tranquil little face?




CHAPTER XIX.

THE GOLDEN CITY.


Tony lay there in the dark, overwhelmed by his unusual terror and sorrow,
until he heard the voice of old Oliver calling his name feebly. He
hurried to him, and found him still beside the bed where Dolly was lying.
He had taken off most of her clothes, and put her white nightgown over
the rest, that she might sleep warmly in them all the night, for her
little hands and feet felt very chilly to his touch. The fire had gone
out while they were away, and the grate looked very black and cheerless.
The room was in great disorder, just as they had left it, and the gas,
which was burning high, cast a cruel glare upon it all. But Tony saw
nothing except the dear face of Dolly, resting on one check upon the
pillow, with her curly hair tossed about it in confusion, and her open
eyes gathering a strange film. Beppo had made his way to her side, and
pushed his head under her lifeless little hand, which tried to pat it now
and then. Old Oliver was sitting on the bedstead, his eyes fastened upon
her, and his whole body trembled violently. Tony sank down upon his
knees, and flung his arm over Dolly, as if to save her from the unseen
power which threatened to take her away from them.

"Don't ky, gan-pa," she said, softly; "don't ky more than a minute. Nor
Tony. Are I going to die, gan-pa?"

"Yes, my little love," cried old Oliver, moaning as he said it.

"Where are I going to?" asked Dolly, very faintly.

"You're going to see my Lord and Master," he said; "him as loves little
children so, and carries them in his arms, and never lets them be
sorrowful or ill or die again."

"Does he live in a bootiful place?" she asked, again.

"It's a more beautiful place than I can tell," answered old Oliver. "The
Lord Jesus gives them light brighter than the sun; and the streets are
all of gold, and there are many little children there, who always see the
face of their Father."

"Dolly's going rere," said the little child, solemnly.

She smiled for a minute or two, holding Beppo's ear between her failing
fingers, and playing with it. Tony's eyes were dim with tears, yet he
could see her clear face clearly through them. What could he do? Was
there no one to help?

"Master, master!" he cried. "If the Lord Jesus is here he can save her.
Ask him, master."

But old Oliver paid no heed to him. For the child who was passing away
from him he was all eye and ear, watching and listening as keenly as in
his best and strongest days; but he was blind and deaf to everything else
around him. Tony's voice could not reach his brain.

"Will gan-pa come rere?" whispered the failing and faltering voice of
Dolly.

"Very soon," he answered; a radiant smile coming to his face, which made
her smile as her eyes caught the glory of it. "Very, very soon, my little
love. You'll be there to meet me when I come."

"Dolly'll watch for gan-pa," she murmured, with long pauses between the
words, which seemed to drop one by one upon Tony's ear; "and Dolly'll
watch at the door for Tony to come home; and she'll fret ever so if he
never comes."

Tony felt her stir restlessly under his arm, and stretch her tiny limbs
upon the bed as if she were very tired, and the languid eyelids drooped
slowly till they quite hid her blue eyes, and she sighed softly as
children sigh when they fall asleep, weary of their play. Old Oliver laid
his shaking hand tenderly upon her head.

"Dear Lord!" he said, "take my little love to thyself. I give her
up to thee."

It seemed to Tony as if a thick mist of darkness fell all about him, and
as if he were sinking down, down, very low into some horrible pit where
he would never see the light of day again. But by-and-bye he came to
himself, and found old Oliver sobbing in short, heavy sobs, and swaying
himself to and fro, while Beppo was licking Dolly's hand, and barking
with a sharp, quiet bark, as he had been wont to do when he wanted her to
play with him. The child's small features were quite still, but there was
an awful smile upon them such as there had never been before, and Tony
could not bear to look upon it. He crossed her tiny hands lightly over
one another upon her breast, and then he lifted Beppo away gently, and
drew the bed-clothes about her, so as to hide her smiling face.

"Master," he cried, "master, is she gone?"

Old Oliver only answered by a deep moan; and Tony put his arm about him,
and raised him up.

"Come to your own chair, master," he said.

He yielded to Tony like a child, and seated himself in the chair, where
he had so often sat and watched Dolly while he smoked his pipe. The boy
put his pipe between his fingers; but he only let it fall to the ground,
where it broke into many pieces. Tony did not know what to do, nor where
to go for any help.

"Lord," he said, "if you really love the old master, do something for
him; for I don't know whatever to do, now little Dolly's gone."

He sat down on his old box, staring at Oliver and the motionless form on
the bed, with a feeling of despair tugging at his heart. He could
scarcely believe it was all true; for it was not very long since--only it
seemed like long years--since he had leaped over the counter in his
light-heartedness. But he had not sat there many minutes before he heard
a distinct, rather loud knock at the shop-door, and he ran hastily to ask
who was there.

"Antony," said a voice he knew very well, "I have come with the doctor,
to see what we can do for your little girl."

In an instant Tony opened the door, and as Mr. Ross entered the boy flung
his arms round him, and hid his face against him, sobbing bitterly.

"Oh! you've come too late," he cried, "you've come too late! Dolly's
dead, and I'm afraid the master's going away from me as well. They
couldn't take her in, and she died after we had brought her home."

The doctor and Mr. Ross went on into the inner room, and Tony pointed
silently to the bed where Dolly lay. Old Oliver roused himself at the
sound of strange voices, and, leaning upon Tony's shoulder, he staggered
to the bedside, and drew the clothes away from her dear, smiling face.

"I don't murmur," he said. "My dear Lord can't do anything unkind. He'll
come and speak to me presently, and comfort me; but just now I'm deaf and
blind, even to him. I've not forgot him, and he hasn't forgot me; but
there's a many things ought to be done, and I cannot think what."

"Leave it all to us," said Mr. Ross, leading him back to his chair. "But
have you no neighbour you can go and stay with for to-night? You are an
old man, and you must not lose your night's sleep."

"No," he answered, shaking his head; "I'd rather stay here in my own
place, if I'd a hundred other places to go to. I'm not afraid of my
little love,--no, no! When everything is done as ought to be done,
I'll lie in my own bed and watch her. It won't be lonesome, as long as
she's here."

In an hour's time all was settled for that night. A little resting-place
had been made for the dead child in a corner of the room, where she lay
covered with a coarse white sheet, which was the last one left of those
which old Oliver's wife had spun in her girlhood. The old man had given
his promise to go to bed when Mr. Ross and the doctor were gone; and he
slept lightly, his face turned towards the place where his little love
was sleeping. A faint light burnt all night in the room, and Tony, who
could not fall asleep, sat in the chimney-corner, with Beppo upon his
knees. There was an unutterable, quiet sorrow within him, mingled with a
strange awe. That little child, who had played with him, and kissed him
only a day since, was already gone into the unseen world, which was so
very near to him now, though it had seemed so very far away and so empty
before. It must be very near, since she had gone to it so quickly; and
it was no longer empty, for Dolly was there; and she had said she would
watch at the door till he came home.




CHAPTER XX.

A FRESH DAY DAWNS.


Old Oliver and Tony saw their darling buried in a little grave in a
cemetery miles away from their own home, and then they returned, desolate
and bereaved, to the deserted city, which seemed empty indeed to them.
The house had never looked so very dark and dreary before. Yet from time
to time old Oliver forgot that Dolly was gone altogether, and could never
come back; for he would call her in his eager, quavering tones, or search
for her in some of the hiding-places, where she had often played at
hide-and-seek with him. When mealtimes came round he would put out
Dolly's plate and cup, which had been bought on purpose for her, with gay
flowers painted upon them; and in the evening, over his pipe, when he had
been used to talk to his Lord, he now very often said nothing but repeat
again and again Dolly's little prayer, which he had himself taught her,
"Gentle Jesus, meek and mild." It was quite plain to Tony that it would
never do to leave him alone in his house and shop.

"I've give up my place as errand-boy," he said to Mr. Ross, "'cause the
old master grows worse and worse for forgetting, and I must mind shop for
him now as well as I can. He's not off his head, as you may say; he's
sharp enough sometimes; but there's no trusting to him being sharp
always. He talks to Dolly as if she was here, and could hear him, till I
can't hardly bear it. But I'm very fond of him,--fonder of him than
anythink else, 'cept my little Dolly; and I've made up my mind as his
Master shall be my master, and he's always ready to tell me all he knows
about him. I'm no ways afeared of not getting along."

Tony found that they got along very well. Mr. Ross made a point of going
in to visit them every week, and of seeing how the business prospered in
the boy's hands; and he put as much as he could in his way. Sad and
sorrowful as the days were, they passed over, one after another, bringing
with them at least the habit of living without Dolly. Every Sunday
afternoon, however, old Oliver and Tony walked slowly through the
streets, for the old man could only creep along with Tony's help, till
they reached the Children's Hospital; but they never passed the door, nor
entered in through it. Old Oliver would stand for a few minutes leaning
heavily on Tony's shoulder, and trembling from head to foot, as his eyes
wandered over all the front of the building; and then a low, wailing cry
would break from his lips, "Dear Lord! there was no room for my little
love, but thou hast found room for her!"

It was a reopening of Tony's sorrow when Aunt Charlotte came up from the
country to find that the little child had gone away altogether, leaving
only her tiny frocks and clothes, which were neatly folded up in a
drawer, where old Oliver treasured up a keepsake or two of his wife's.
She discovered, too, that old Oliver had forgotten to write to
Susan,--indeed, his hand had become too trembling to hold a pen,--and she
wrote herself; but her letter did not reach Calcutta before Susan and her
husband had left it, being homeward bound.

It was as nearly two years as it could well be since the summer evening
when Susan Raleigh had sent her little girl into old Oliver's shop,
bidding her be a good girl till she came home, and thinking it would be
only three days before she saw her again. It was nearly two years, and an
evening something like it, when the door was darkened by the entrance of
a tall, fine-looking man, dressed as a soldier, but with one empty sleeve
looped up across his chest. Tony was busy behind the counter wrapping up
magazines, which he was going to take out the next morning, and the
soldier looked very inquisitively at him.

"Hallo! my lad, who are you?" he asked, in a tone of surprise.

"I'm Antony Oliver," he said; for of late he had taken to call himself by
his old master's name.

"Antony Oliver!" repeated the stranger; "I never heard of you before."

"Well, I'm only Tony," he answered; "but I live with old Mr. Oliver now,
and call him grandfather. He likes it, and it does me good. It's like
somebody belonging to me."

"Why! how long have you called him grandfather?" asked the soldier again.

"Ever since our little Dolly died," said Tony, in a faltering voice.

"Dolly dead!" exclaimed the man, looking ready to fall down; for his
face went very white, and he leaned upon the counter with his one hand.
"Oh! my poor Susan!--my poor, dear girl!--however can I tell her this
bad news?"

"Who are you?" cried Tony. "Are you Dolly's father? Oh, she's dead!
She died last January, and we are more lonesome without her than you
can think."

"Let me see poor Susan's father," he said, after a minute or two, and
with a very troubled face.

"Ay, come in," said Tony, lifting up the flap of the counter, under which
Dolly had so often played at hide-and-seek. "He's more hisself again; but
his memory's bad yet. I know everythink about her, though; because she
was so fond of me, and me of her. Come in."

Raleigh entered the room, and saw old Oliver sitting in his arm-chair,
with a pipe in his hand, and a very tranquil look upon his wrinkled face.
The gas-light shone upon the glittering epaulettes and white sash of the
soldier, and the old man fastened upon him a very keen, yet doubtful gaze
of inquiry.

"Don't you know me, father?" cried Raleigh, almost unable to utter a
word. "It's your poor Susan's husband, and Dolly's father."

"Dolly's father!" repeated old Oliver, rising from his chair, and
resting his hand upon Raleigh's shoulder. "Do you know that the dear Lord
has taken her to be where he is in glory?"

"Yes, I know it," he said, with a sob.

He put the old man back in his seat, and drew a chair close up to him.
They sat thus together in sorrowful silence for some minutes, until old
Oliver laid his hand upon the empty sleeve on Raleigh's breast.

"You've lost your arm," he said, pityingly.

"Ay!" answered Raleigh; "our colonel was set upon by a tiger in the
jungle, and I saved him; but the brute tore my arm, and craunched
the bone between his teeth till it had to come off. It's spoiled me
for a soldier."

"Yes, yes, poor fellow," answered old Oliver, "but the Lord knew all
about it."

"That he did," answered Raleigh; "and he's taught me a bit more about
himself than I used to know. I'm not spoiled to be His soldier. But I
don't know much about the service yet, and I shall want you to teach me,
father. You'll let me call you father, for poor Susan's sake, won't you?"

"To be sure--to be sure," said old Oliver, keeping his hand still upon
the empty sleeve on Raleigh's breast.

"Well, father," he continued, "as I am not fit for a soldier, and as the
colonel was hurt too, we're all come home together. Only Susan's gone
straight on with her lady and our little girl, and sent me through London
to see after you and Dolly."

"Your little girl?" said Oliver questioningly.

"Yes, the one born in India. Her name's Mary, but we call her Polly.
Susan said it made her think of our little Dolly at home. Dear! dear! I
don't know however I shall let her know."

Another fit of silence fell upon them, and Tony left them together, for
it was time to put up the shop shutters. It seemed just like the night
when he had followed Susan and the little girl, and loitered outside in
the doorway opposite, to see what would happen after she had left her in
the shop. He fancied he was a ragged, shoeless boy again, nobody loving
him, or caring for him, and that he saw old Oliver and Dolly standing on
the step, looking out for the mother, who had gone away, never, never to
see her darling again. Tony's heart was very full; and when he tried to
whistle, he was obliged to give it up, lest he should break out into sobs
and crying. When he went back into the house Raleigh was talking again.

"So Susan and me are to have one of the lodges of the colonel's park,"
he said, "and I'm to be a sort of bailiff to look after the other outdoor
servants about the garden and premises. It's a house with three bedrooms,
and a very pleasant sort of little parlour, as well as a kitchen and
scullery place downstairs. You can see the Wrekin from the parlour
window, and the moon over it; and it's not so far away but what we could
get a spring-cart sometimes, and drive over to your old home under the
Wrekin. As soon as ever the colonel's lady told Susan where it was, she
cried out, 'That's the very place for father!' You'd like to come and
live with your own Susan again, in your own country; wouldn't you now?"

"Yes, yes; for a little while," answered old Oliver, with a smile
upon his face.

Tony felt a strange and very painful shrinking at his heart. If the old
man went away to live with his daughter in the country, his home would be
lost to him, and he would have to go out into the great city again alone,
with nobody to love. He could get his living now in a respectable manner,
and there was no fear of his being driven to sleep in Covent Garden, or
under the bridges. But he would be alone, and all the links which bound
him to Dolly and old Oliver would be snapped asunder. He wondered if the
Lord Jesus would let such a thing be.

"But I couldn't leave Tony," cried old Oliver, suddenly; and putting on
his spectacles to look for him.

"Come here, Tony. He's like my own son to me, bless him! He calls me
grandfather, and kept my heart up when I should have sunk very low
without him. My Master gave him to me the very same night he gave me my
little love. No, no; Dolly loved Tony, and Susan must come here to see
me, but I could never leave my boy."

Old Oliver had put his arm round Tony, drawing him closer and closer to
him as he spoke, until his withered cheek pressed fondly against his
face. Since Dolly died neither of them had felt such a thrill of
happiness as now.

"The colonel and his lady must be told about this," said Raleigh, after
he had heard all that Tony had been and done for old Oliver; and when he
was obliged to go away for the night, the soldier gave him such a cordial
grasp of the hand, as set all his fingers tingling, and his heart
throbbing with exultation.




CHAPTER XXI.

POLLY.


The lodge stood in a very lovely place, upon a slope of ground, which
rose still higher to where the colonel's grand house was situated. There
was a porch before the door, built of rough logs of pines, covered with
ivy and honeysuckle, and with seats in it, where you could sit and look
out over a wide, rich plain, with little hills and dales in it,
stretching far away towards the sky-line, where some distant mountains
lay, so like to clouds, that you could scarcely tell which were soft and
misty vapours, and which were solid and everlasting hills. The Severn ran
through the beautiful plain with so many windings, sometimes lying in
shadow under deep banks, and sometimes glistening and sparkling in the
sunlight, that it looked more like many little pools scattered about the
meadows than one long, continuous river. Not very far away, as Raleigh
had said, stood the Wrekin, purple in the evening haze, but by day so
plain, that one could see the great rock on its summit, which in olden
times served as an altar to the god of fire.

Susan was very busy, and had been very busy all day over two
things--preparing the house for the reception of her father, whom she had
not seen for so many years, and in teaching her little girl, who was now
eighteen months old, to say grand-pa. The one work was quite finished;
everything was ready for old Oliver, and now she was waiting and watching
to see the colonel's spring cart arrive from the station with her
husband, who was gone to meet old Oliver and Tony. For Tony was not on
any account to be parted from the old man--so said the colonel and his
lady--but was to be employed about the garden, and as general errand boy
for the house, and to live at the lodge with old Oliver. Susan's eyes
were red, for as she had been busy about her work, she had several times
cried bitterly over her lost little girl; but she had resolved within
herself not to shed a single tear after her father was come, lest she
should spoil the gladness of his coming home to her. At last the cart
came in sight, and stopped, and Raleigh and Tony sprang out to help
Oliver to get down, while Susan put down Polly in the porch, and ran to
throw her arms round her dear old father's neck.

He was very quiet, poor old Oliver. He had not spoken a word since he
left the station, but had gazed about him as they drove along the
pleasant lane with almost a troubled look upon his tranquil face. When
his dim eyes caught the first glimpse of the Wrekin he lifted his hat
from his white and trembling head, as if to greet it like some great and
dear friend, after so many years of absence. Now he stood still at the
wicket, leaning upon Susan's arm, and looking round him again with a
gentle yet sad smile. The air was so fresh, after the close streets of
London, that to him it seemed even full of scents of numberless flowers;
and the sun was shining everywhere, upon the blossoms in the garden, and
the fine old elm-trees in the park, and the far-off hills. He grasped
Tony's hand in his, and bade him look well about him.

"If only my little love had had a bit of sunshine!" he said, with a
mournful and tender patience in his feeble voice.

But just then--scarcely had he finished speaking--there came a shrill,
merry little scream behind them, so like Dolly's, that both old Oliver
and Tony turned round quickly. It could not be the same, for this little
child was even smaller than Dolly; but as she came pattering and
tottering down the garden-walk towards them, they saw that she had the
same fair curly hair, and blue eyes, and rosy cheeks that Dolly had had
two years before. She ran and hid her face in her mother's gown; but
Susan lifted her into her arms, and held her towards old Oliver.

"Say grand-pa, and kiss him, Polly," she said, coaxingly.

The little child held back shyly for a minute, for old Oliver's head was
shaking much more than usual now; but at length she put her two soft
little hands to his face, and held it between them, while she kissed him.

"Gan-pa!" she cried, crowing and chuckling with delight.

They went indoors to the pleasant parlour, where old Oliver's arm-chair
was set ready for him by the side of the fire, for Susan had kindled a
fire, saying that he would feel the fresh air blowing from the Wrekin;
and Polly sat first on his knee, and then upon Tony's, who could not keep
his eyes from following all her movements. But still it was not their own
Dolly who had made the old house in the close alley in London so happy
and so merry for them. She was gone home to the Father's house, and was
watching for them there. Tony might be a long time before he joined her,
but for old Oliver the parting would be but short. As he sat in the
evening dusk, very peacefully and contentedly, while Susan sang Polly to
sleep in the kitchen, Tony heard him say half aloud, as his custom was,
"Yet a little, and I will come again, and receive you unto myself, that
where I am ye may be also. Even so, come, Lord Jesus!"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Alone In London, by Hesba Stretton

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALONE IN LONDON ***

***** This file should be named 12172.txt or 12172.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/1/7/12172/

Produced by Joel Erickson, Tom Harris, Dave Morgan, Mary Meehan and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook's
eBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,
compressed (zipped), HTML and others.

Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take over
the old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.
VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receiving
new filenames and etext numbers.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,
are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want to
download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regular
search system you may utilize the following addresses and just
download by the etext year.

     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06

    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,
     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)

EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, are
filed in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer part
of the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which is
identical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of single
digits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  For
example an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:

     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234

or filename 24689 would be found at:
     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689

An alternative method of locating eBooks:
     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL

